Dan- BA nord — ( D0 Kevohocwr

July 5, 1978

Mr. H, C. Roemer

Vice President and General Counsel
R. J. Reynolds Indtstries, Inc,
Winston=Salem, North Carolina 27102

Dear Jacks

Thanks for your very prompt response to my recent letter, and for extending
the deadline for ny research grant until January 31, 1979. This will give us
time tom complete the research thatis already in progress and to develop a
comprehensive final report. ‘

I am enclosing a copy of a recent letter from Ray Rosenman in which he has
proposed a new and exciting additional analysis of data he collected some

yeara ago. A carbon of my response to Ray is also enclosed for your files.

The fact that Ray has becomre more decply interested in the role of anger in

heart disease, and that we are able to assist and guide him in the analysis

of previously unevaluated data from the WCGS prospective study is most

gratifying. Hopefully, Ray will invite me to collaborate with him in a joint
paper and this raises the question of how we should acknowledge support for .
this research, Would it be appropriate to indicate this as follows: "This
study was supported in part by a grant from R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc." ,
Since. Ed Jacob has sensitized me to legal issues that I do not fully under-

stand, I am sending him a carbon of this letter, along with the correspoddence
with Rosenman, so that we can obtain two expert legal opinions}

I have just returned from a very productive three week trip to the Middle
East where I attended conferences on stress and adaptation in Israel, and
consulted with colleagues in Greece and Turkey. llans Eysenck and Ed Jacob
will be visiting Tampa next wekk to begin research on a new project entitled |
"Origins and correlates of smoking behavior", and I look forward to sharing
these developments with you in future correspondence or in a subsequent visit
to Winston-Salem. I appreciate your suggesting that Dr. Colby send me a copy
of his translations of excerpts of a recent German book on stress and heart
disease, A carbon of my response to Dr. Colbe is enclosed. I look forward
to meeting him on a future consultation visit to Winston-Salen. .

Best personal regards and best wishes.
Sincerely,

CHARLES D. SPIELBERGER, PH.D.
Professor of Psycholopy and

Director, Center for Research
in Comaunity Psychology me SS,

\
SvZz estos

ec: Edwin J. Jacob, Esq,
My. Donald H. Piehl

at . fe vote ee ee