Expression of a Foreign Gene by Influenza Virus
111

Furthermore, preincubation of this medium with anti-WSN
antiserum completely abolished the induction of CAT ac-
tivity. These resuits indicate that the CAT RNP packaged
into recombinant virus is responsible for the CAT activity.

In another set of experiments, RNP transfection was
performed using IVACAT2 RNA, which contains three ad-
jacent point mutations at the 5’ end of the RNA (Figure 1B).
The use of this RNA resulted in undetectable levels of CAT
activity. IVACAT2 RNA has a wild-type 3’ end containing
the transcriptional promoter and would only allow for pri-
mary transcription to take place, which is not detected in
this system. No CAT activity was detected following infec-
tion of new cells using the medium derived from this RNP
transtaction (Figure 5C, leftmost two lanes). These experi-
ments indicate that amplification and packaging of the
RNA require the presence of intact influenza virus termini.
Therefore, the high level of CAT expression in cells trans-
fected with IVACAT1 RNPs must be due to amplification of
input RNA and cannot be caused by a nonspecific effect.

Finally, we examined the stability of CAT RNA in recom-
binant virus. Medium from cells infected with WSN virus
and transfected 1.5 hr later with IVACAT1 RNP was col-
lected after 19.5 hr. The recombinant virus in the medium
was then passaged for three times on MDBK cells, and
each time cells were harvested 16-18 hr p.i. and assayed
for CAT activity (Figure 5C). Although CAT activity de-
creased with passage, significant levels were measured
in each cell extract. Addition of fresh helper virus during
the third passage markedly increased the CAT expression
level. These results further indicate that the CAT RNA is
indeed packaged into virus particles.

Discussion

We constructed a recombinant plasmid that, following
transcription by T7 polymerase, yielded an RNA template
which was recognized and transcribed by the influenza vi-
rus polymerase in vitro. This RNA template corresponds
to the NS RNA of an influenza virus except that the viral
coding sequences are replaced by those of a CAT gene.
This recombinant negative-strand viral RNA template was.
then mixed with purified influenza virus polymerase to
reconstitute an RNP complex. The polymerase, consist-
ing mainly of NP with minor amounts of the three polymer-
ase proteins PB2, PB1, and PA, was originally purified
from mature virions (Parvin et al., 1989). The recombinant
RNP complex was transfected into cells that were then in-
fected with influenza virus, leading to expression of CAT
activity.

Why do we think that this system represents a biologi-
cally active recombinant RNP complex under the tight
control of the signals for transcription, replication, and
packaging of influenza virus RNAs? First, the CAT gene
is of negative polarity in the recombinant viral RNA used
for RNP transfection. Thus, the incoming RNA cannot be
translated directly in the cell and must first be transcribed
to permit translation and expression of the CAT gene. Sec-
ond, neither transfected naked recombinant RNA alone in
the presence of infecting helper virus nor recombinant
RNP complex in the absence of infecting helper virus Is

successful in inducing CAT activity. These observations
suggest that influenza viral proteins provided by the infect-
ing helper virus, as well as by the incoming RNP, are
necessary for the replication of the recombinant RNA tem-
plate. Proteins provided by the helper virus may include
the nonstructural proteins NS1 and NS2. Although their
function is not known, these proteins, net found in mature
virions, are presumed to play a role during the course of
virus replication because they are found in the nuclei of
infected cells (Young et al., 1983; Greenspan et al., 1985;
Herz et al., 1981). Also, we have shown in a previous study
that the polymerase purified from virions, which is used
to form the recombinant RNP, is not able to transcribe
positive-sense RNA (Parvin et al., 1989). Therefore, helper
virus proteins or modified polymerase proteins are neces-
Sary to obtain amplification of template RNA. Thus, the
function of the purified polymerase may be to contribute
to the primary transcription of the CAT RNA and/or be
used for forming the correct RNP structure recognized by
the helper virus proteins. If the latter is the case, then the
NP protein alone might be functional for transfection
studies. We are currently examining this possibility.

A number of other observations indicate that the high
expression leveis of the CAT gene reflect amplification of
its RNA template. First, RNP derived from RNA with three
point mutations at the 5’ end has undetectable CAT activ-
ity. Thus, the 5’ terminal sequence is most likely the recog-
nition signal of the viral polymerase on the positive-strand
RNA template. With this signal mutated there is appar-
ently no RNA amplification occurring. Second, after RNP
transfection using IVACAT1 RNA (and not the mutated
IVACAT2 RNA) and infection by helper virus, virus parti-
cles emerge that contain the recombinant RNA. These
particles again induce CAT activity in freshly infected celis
and can be passaged several times with continued induc-
tion of CAT activity. tt should be noted that, in general,
consecutive passaging of undiluted influenza virus prepa-
tations leads to the rapid emergence of defective (interfer-
ing) particles and consequently to lower virus titers as well
as lower expression levels of virat proteins. This effect can
be overcome by addition of extra helper virus. When fresh
helper virus is added to the third passage of the recom-
binant virus preparation, the level of CAT activity is in-
creased in infected cells (Figure 5C). Taken together,
these results suggest that the 26 3° terminal and the 22
5' terminal nucleotides corresponding to the terminal
nucleotides in the influenza A virus NS RNA are sufficient
to provide the signals for polymerase transcription and
replication, as welt as for packaging of the ANAs into parti-
cles. Additicnal studies should help us to define these sig-
nals further.

In the past, many different DNA viruses have been ge-
netically altered to direct the expression of heterologous
proteins in host cells. Among these systems are vaccinia
virus (Niacin et al., 1982; Weir et al., 1982), cytomegalovi-
tus (Spaete and Mocarski, 1987), and herpesvirus (Spaete
and Frenkel, 1982). Similar progress has been made
using positive-strand AINA viruses. Notably, the Sindbis vi-
tus system allows the efficient expression of foreign anti-
gens through appropriate vectors (Xiong et al., 1989).