Cell
1112

Also, infectious poliovirus has been derived from a full-
length cDNA clone (Racaniello and Baltimore, 1981), and
chimeric viruses have been generated through recom-
binant DNA techniques (Evans et al., 1989). In addition,
infectious positive-strand RNA plant viruses have been
generated from cDNA clones, and modifications have
been introduced into their genomes via DNA manipulation
(Ahiquist et al., 1984; Takamatsu et al., 1987; Dasma-
hapatra et al., 1986).

By contrast, because of the lack of an appropriate res-
cue system, negative-strand RNA viruses have not been
subjected to site-specific modifications or foreign gene
replacement. In this paper we describe a general proce-
dure by which the genome of an influenza virus may be
altered and the expression of an inserted foreign gene
achieved. We believe that these results open new op-
portunities in the negative-strand RNA virus field. For
example, it should now become possible to study struc-
ture-function relationships in influenza virus genes using
site-specific mutagenesis. Previously, such studies could
not be done using whole virus, and questions of patho-
genicity —as they retate to specific regions or nuclectides
in different genes—could be readdressed employing this
system.

Another area of interest concerns the improvement of
live and killed influenza virus vaccines, Through the in-
troduction of stable attenuation characteristics into in-
fluenza viruses, it is hoped that a new generation of effec-
tive live influenza virus vaccines will be developed, but
even killed influenza virus vaccines may be improved by
site-specific modifications in the genes of the prototype
vaccine strain.

Finally, several features of this system suggest that in-
fluenza virus might be a useful vaccine vector for the ex-
pression of foreign genes. One drawback of the vaccinia
virus system and of other vectors is the limitation on
repeated use of chimeric strains in the same individual.
For example, it is unlikely that continued revaccination
with different chimeric vaccinia viruses will be effective. In
contrast, the availability of large numbers of influenza vi-
rus variants could provide us with many candidates for
constructing attenuated chimeric viruses for use in vacci-
nation against a variety of antigens. Another interesting
feature of the present system concerns the ability of in-
fluenza virus to induce a vigorous secretory and cellular
immune response. For example, infection of the respira-
tory tract by chimeric influenza viruses may induce a
strong secretory immune response in the genital system,
with concomitant protection against a particular agent. In
addition, chimeric iniluenza virus vectors may help in the
large-scale production of specific proteins (antigens) in
higher eukaryotic cells for use in vaccines or other appli-
cations.

Experimental Procedures

Viruses and Cells

Influenza A/PR/8/34 and AAWSN/33 viruses were grown in embryo-
nated eggs and MDCK cells, respectively (Ritchey et al., 1976; Sugiura
et al., 1972). RNP transfections were performed on human 293 ceils
(Graham et al., 1977), MDCK cells, and MDBK cells (Sugiura et al.,
1972).

Construction of Plasmids
Plasmid pIVACAT1, derived from pUC19, contains the coding region of
the CAT gene flanked by the noncoding sequences of the influenza
A/PRY8/34 RNA segment 8. This construct was placed under the con-
trol of the T7 polymerase promoter in such a way that the AINA tran-
script IVACAT1 contains, in 5'to 3 order: 22 nt derived from the 5’ termi-
nus of the influenza virus NS RNA, an 8 nt linker sequence including
a Bgtll restriction site, he CAT gene in negative polarity, and 26 nt de-
rived from the 3° end of the influenza virus NS RNA (Figure 1).
pPIVACAT1 was constructed in the following way: To obtain the correct
5’ end in pIVACAT1, the EcoRI-Scal fragment of the CAT gene darived
from plasmid pCM7 (Pharmacia) was ligated to a DNA fragment
formed by two synthatic oligonucleotides, 5-ACTGCGATGAGTGGCA-
GGGCGGGGCGTAATAGAT-3’(tep strand) and 5-CTAGATCTATTACG-
CCCCGCCCTGCCACTCATCGCAGT-3' (bottom strand). For the 3’ end
of the insert in plVACAT1, the SfaNI-EcoRI fragment of tha CAT gene
was ligated to a DNA fragment made up of the synthetic oligonucleo-
tides 5CTAGACGCCCTGCAGCAAAAGCAGGGTGACAAAGACATAA-
TGGAGAAAAAAATCACTGGGTATACCACCGT TGATATATCCCAATCG-
CATCGTAAA-3' (top strand) and 5'-GTTCTT TACGATGCGAT TGGGAT-
ATATCAACGGTGGTATACCCAGIGAT TT TTT TCTCCAT TATGTCTT TG-
TEACCCTGCTTTTGCTGCAGGGCGT-2' (bottom strand). Oigonucle-
tides were synthesized on an Applied Biosystems DNA synthesizer,
These 5° and 3’ constructs were ligated into pUC19 shuttle vectors
digested with Xbal and EcoRt, grown up, cut out with EcoRI and Bglll
(5' region) and Xbal and EcoRI (3’ region}, and ligated into Bglll- and
Xbal-cut pPHV (M. K., unpublished data). The latter plasmid is similar
to pVWT (Parvin et al., 1989) except that it contains a Bglil site separat-
ing the nancoding terminal sequences of the influenza A virus NS RNA
segment. pIVACAT2 was obtained in a similar way using a variant of
PPHY that contains three adjacent point mutations (Figure 1). The final
clones pIVACAT1 and piVACATe (Figure 1) were grown up and the DNA
was partially sequenced starting from the flanking pUC sequences
and reaching into the CAT gene. No deviations from the expected se-
quences were found with the exception of a silent G to A transition in
the CAT gene at position 106 relative to the start of both RNAs.

T? RNA Synthesis

Plasmids plVACAT1 and pIVACAT2 were digested with Hgal (Figure 1)
to allow run-off transcription. The 5 nt overhang generated by this en-
zyme was filled in with Klenow enzyme (BRL), and the DNA was puri-
fied over a spin column (Boehringer). The T7 polymerase reaction was
performed using standard procedures in the presence of ANasin
(Promega). Template DNA was removed with RNAase-free DNAase |
(Promega). The RNA was purified over Qiagen tip-5 columns (Qiagen,
Inc.) and quantitated using silver-stained 4% polyacrylamide geis. NS
RNA was prepared from plasmid pHgaN$ (Parvin et al., 1988) in the
same way.

Purification of Influenza A Virus Polymerase

and in Vitro Transcription

The RNA polymerase complex was purified from influenza A/PR/G/34
as described (Parvin et al., 1989). In vitro transcription of unlabsied
IVACAT1 or HgaNS RNA tempiates was carried out using the condi-
tions described previously (Parvin et al., 1989). Radiolabeled tran-
scripts were analyzed on 4% polyacrylamide gels.

RNP Transfection of MDCK, MDBK, and 293 Cells

Far RNP transfection, 36 mm dishes containing approximately 10°
cells were treated with 1 mi of a solution of 300 ug/ml DEAE-dextran,
0.5% dimethyl sulfoxide in PBS-gelatin (0.1 mg/ml gelatin) for 30 min
at room temperature, following a protocol kindly provided by Dr. J. Or-
tin. After removal of this solution, 200 11 of PBS-gelatin containing 1
ug of RNA (1-2 yl), 20 ul of the purified polymerase preparation, and
4 ut of RNasin was added to the cells and incubated for 1 hr at 37°C.
This was followed by the addition of gradient-purified influenza Af
WSN/33 virus (moi >10; 293 cells and MDCK cells) or AAWSN/33 seed
virus (moi ~1; MDBK celis). After incubation for 1 hr at 37°C, 2 ml of
sither DMEM plus 10% FCS (293 cells), REM (MDBK cells), or MEM
(MDCK cells) was addad. In other experiments MDBK cells were first
infected and subsequently RNP-transfected. Harvesting of cells was
done in NET buffer or in medium, using a rubber policeman (MDBK
and MDCK celis) or by gentle suspension (293 cells). Cells were spun
down and the pellets were resuspended in 100 ul of 0.25 M Tris bufter