Cell, Vol. 59, 1107-1113, December 22, 1989, Copyright © 1989 by Cell Press

Amplification, Expression, and Packaging
of a Foreign Gene by Influenza Virus

Willem Luyties, Mark Krystal, Masayoshi Enami,”
Jeffrey D. Parvin,t and Peter Palese

Department of Microbiology

Mount Sinai School of Medicine

One Gustave L. Levy Place

New York, New York 10029

Summary

A system is described that allows use of recombinant
DNA technology to modify the genome of Influenza vi-
Tus, a negative-strand RNA virus, and to engineer vec-
tors for the expression of foreign genes. Recombinant
RNA is expressed from plasmid DNA in which the cod-
ing sequence of the influenza A virus NS gene is
replaced with that of the chloramphenicol acetyltrans-
ferase gene. When transfected with purified influenza
A virus polymerase protelns—In the presence of helper
virus—the recombinant RNA is amplified, expressed,
and packaged into virus particles, which can be pas-
saged several times. The data indicate that the 22
5’ terminal and the 26 3‘ terminal bases of the influenza
A virus RNA are sufficient to provide the signals for
RNA transcription, RNA replication, and packaging of
RNA into infiuenza virus particles.

Introduction

Influenza A virus is a negative-strand RNA virus that con-
tains eight different genome segments (Palese, 1977).
These RNAs, together with the PB1, PB2, PA, and NP pro-
teins of the virus, make up the ribonucleoprotein (RNP)
core, which exhibits the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
activity of the virus (Krug, 1983). Because earlier attempts
to solubilize the polymerase were unsuccessful, it has
only recently become possible to study the sequence re-
quirements for the influenza virus polymerase. Szewezyk
et al. (1988) were able to purify the three P proteins and
the NP protein from acrylamide gels and renature the
complex along with naked RNA using thioredoxin. In addi-
tion, Honda et al. (1988) and Parvin et al. (1989) suc-
ceeded in isolating active polymerase complexes from ri-
bonucleoprotein cores using CsCl-glycerol gradient
centrifugation. In the latter study, the purified PB1, PB2,
PA, and NP protein complex (depleted of viral RNA) was
then used to study the promoter signals for the polymer-
ase activity (Parvin et al., 1989). Short synthetic RNA moi-
ecules 30-53 nucleotides (nt) in length were transcribed
from appropriate plasmid constructs by T7 RNA polymer-
ase. The resulting RNAs contained, at their ends, se-

* On leave of absence from: Department of Meastes Virus, National In-
stitute of Health, Gakuen, Musashimurayama, Tokyo 190-12, Japan.
t Present address: Department of Biology and Center for Cancer Re-
search, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts 02139.

quences corresponding to the 5’ and 3’ terminal nucleo-
tides of influenza virus RNAs. These RNAs were able to
be used as templates for the isolated influenza virus poly-
merase complex.

This ability to reconstitute RNPs in vitro allowed us to
establish that the 3’ terminal nucleotides of an influenza
virus RNA contain the polymerase recognition and pro-
moter sites for transcription. However, the polymerase, pu-
tified from whole virus, was not able to efficiently copy
positive-sense template (Parvin et al., 1989). In addition,
it had previously been demonstrated that the genomic
RNAs in purified influenza virus and in infected cells
formed circles via panhandle structures involving the 3’
and 5' terminal nucleotides (Hsu et al., 1987; Honda et al.,
1988}. We thus speculated that the untranslated regions
of an influenza virus RNA might be required to obtain effi-
cient replication in vivo and possibly allow for the packag-
ing of the RNAs into virus particles.

In this paper we discuss in vivo experiments using a
recombinant RNA molecule containing sequences corre-
sponding to the untranslated 3’ and 5‘ terminal sequences
of the NS RNA of influenza virus A/PR/8/34 flanking the
antisense-oriented open reading frame of the chloram-
phenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) gene. This RNA was
mixed with purified influenza virus polymerase complex
and transfected into Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK),
293, or Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells. Follow-
ing infection with influenza AAWSN/33 virus, CAT activity
was detected in the RNP-transfected cells, indicating am-
plification and expression of the gene. In addition, the
recombinant influenza virus gene was packaged into virus
particles, since CAT activity was demonstrated in cells fol-
lowing infection with the recombinant virus preparation.
Virus containing the recombinant gene could be pas-
saged several times in cells.

Results

Synthesis of IVACAT1 Template RNA

To study the transcription and replication signals of in-
fluenza A virus RNAs in vivo, we constructed plasmid
pIVACATt (Figure 1), which directs the synthesis of an NS
RNA-like transcript. This RNA shares the 22 5’ terminal
and the 26 3’ terminal nucleotides with the NS RNA of in-
fluenza A/PR/8/34 virus and contains — instead of the cod-
ing sequences for the NS1 and NS2 proteins— sequences
encoding a full-length CAT protein. For cloning purposes
it also contains an additional 8 nt including a Bglll site be-
tween the stop codon of the CAT gene and the stretch of
U's in the 5’ noncoding region. The T7 promoter adjacent
to the 5’ noncoding sequences and the Hgal site down-
stream of the 3’ end allow for the exact tailoring of the 5°
and 3’ ends. Run-off transcription using T7 polymerase
generates a 716 nt long RNA: lanes 2-4 in Figure 2 show
that the IVACAT1 RNA is of discrate length and shorter
than the 890 nt long marker NS RNA synthesized by T7
polymerase transcription of pHgaNS (lane 1).