Cell

 

 

1110
HOURS PL. C 1 46° BF 12
LEFT RIGHT
| 4 *
eee ee o
: : o 9 8
c RNP ANP c VIRUS VIRUS. VIRUS,
RNase: RNase Ab
IVACAT2 IWACATI

 

9 2e 3° 3°

RNP e c BNP 1
+

nelpor

virus

Figure 5. Packaging of Recombinant CAT ANA into Influenza Virus
Particles

(A) Tima course of CAT activity in MDCK cells infected with recom-
binant virus. Medium from RNP-transfected and helper virus-infected
MDCK cells was used to infect fresh MDCK cells. Inoculum (100 i, ap-
plied three times on 35 mm dishes) was removed, and MEM containing
1 ug/ml trypsin was added. Cells were harvested 1, 4.6, 8.3, and 12 hr
pi. as indicated. C represents a control of helper virus-infected but not
ANP-transfected cells.

(8, left) RNAase treatment of ANP preparations eliminates CAT axpres-
sion in MDBK ceils. Transfection procedures, using IVACAT1 RNA,
were as described. C: mock-transfected calls. RNP: cells RNP-trans-
fected with IVACAT? RNPs. RNP + ANAase: cells RNP-transfected
with IVACAT1 RNPs preincubated with 1 mg/ml RNAase A for 30 min
at O°C (no RNasin added).

(8, right) Recombinant virus is neutralized by virus-specific antiserum,
and ANAase A treatment has no effect on induction of CAT activity.
Medium from RNP-transfected and helper virus-infected MDBK cells
was usad to infect fresh cells, which were harvested 16 hr p.i. and as-
sayed for CAT activity. C: untreated cells. VIRUS: cells infectad with
medium containing recombinant virus. VIRUS + RNase: medium con-
taining recombinant virus was incubated for 30 min with 1 mg/ml
RNAaze A at 0°C prior to infection. VIRUS + Ab; medium containing
recombinant virus (three times 100 ul) was preincubated with 10 jl of
receptor destroying enzyme-treated antiWSN rabbit antiserum (30
min at 0°C) prior to infection.

(C} ANP transfection using IVACAT1 and IVACAT2 RNA and passaging
of recombinant virus. Following RNP transfection of MDBK cells,
medium was used to infect fresh MDBK cells. At 16-18 hr after RNP
transfection or recombinant virus intection, cells were harvested and
assayed for CAT activity and medium was used for subsequent infec-
tions. First lane: cells transfected with IVACAT2 RNP. Second lane:

fected with the recombinant CAT RNP also did not exhibit
endogenous acetylation activity (Figure 4B, lane 10). It
thus appears that addition of the purified polymerase
to the recombinant RNA as well as infection of cells by
helper virus is necessary for successful expression of the
CAT enzyme.

Experiments were also performed using MDCK cells,
the usual tissue culture host cell for influenza virus (Figure
4C). When the reconstituted recombinant CAT RNP com-
plex was transfected 1 hr before virus infection, little CAT
activity was observed at 5 hr p.i. (Figure 4C, lane 1). When
RNP transfection was accomplished 2 hr p.i., expression
of CAT was greatly enhanced at 5 hr p.i. (Figure 4C, lane
3). With MDBK cells, even higher levels of CAT activity
could be detected when RNP transfection was accom-
plished 1.5 hr p.i. (see below).

The Recombinant CAT RNP Is Packaged

into Virus Particles

Since the recombinant CAT RNA can be replicated in vivo
via helper virus functions, we examined whether virus pro-
duced in RNP-transfected and helper virus-infected cells
contained the CAT gene. First, MDCK cells were infected
with AAWSN/33 virus, RNP-transfected 1.5 hr later, and al-
lowed to incubate overnight. At 14 hr p.i., medium was har-
vested and cells were pelleted. Virus supernatant was
then used to infect new MDCK cell monolayers. The inocu-
lum was removed after 1 hr and cells from different dishes
were harvested 1, 4.6, 8.3, and 12 hr p.i. and assayed for
CAT aotivity. Figure 5A reveals that over time the virus
preparation induces a significant level of CAT activity. This
could be due to either the rescue of the recombinant RNA
into infectious particles or the accidental capture of CAT
protein during budding. However, the increase in CAT ac-
tivity with time proves that it is not the CAT protein that is
packaged by the virus; rather, the experiment indicates
Packaging of the CAT RNA.

Higher levels of CAT activity were obtained using MDBK
cells, and therefore these cells were used for further ex-
perimentation. First, to exclude the possibility that un-
packaged RNP complexes were responsible for the ex-
pression of CAT enzyme activity after passaging, medium
from RNP-transfected ceils was treated with RNAase A.
RNAase treatment has shown to degrade the ANPs puri-
fied from influenza virus (Pons et al., 1969; Scholtissek
and Becht, 1971) but not those packaged into virions.
When recombinant RNP was treated with RNAase prior
to transfection of helper virus-infected MDBK cells, no
CAT activity was detected (Figure 5B, left). However, no
reduction in CAT activity was observed after infection us-
ing medium—harvested 19.5 hr after RNP transfection—
that had been treated with RNAase A (Figure 58, right).

calla infected with medium from calls transfected with I[VACAT2 RNP
(first passage). Third lane (C): untreated cells (control). Fourth lane:
cells transfected with IVACAT1 RNP. Fifth lane: cells infected with
medium from cells transfected with IVACAT{ ANP (first passage). Sixth
and seventh lanes: second and third passages, respectively, of
IVACATI recombinant virus. Eighth lane: same as seventh lane but su-
Perinfected with 100 ul of fresh influenza AAWSN/33 helper virus.