s

Fiéom o). (BP C.Denald REA pax ‘ Son Hove €

h. beikon ,
A ’ Ky beonoulos
J. Se N Ae
GS. Can lsarn
WEP

The Globe and Mail, Sacurday, February 19, 1994 TRAVEL

, Th

BANS SPREADING

Flights for puffers going up in smoke

BY BETSY WADE This reguiution. put Into effect in. dropped toiwe Mights, both allowed — seats. according to » 5 keswoman.

New York Tienes Service 1990 after Congress required [t..bans anolg because, according to Lori. Delta, Trans World and Continental
HE United States, Canada. smoking on all scheduled flights in Levin-Hyums. 3 spokeswomun, the saidtheyplunned nochange.

‘Australia apd New Zesiand the 48 contiguous states, to the U.S. pressure for smoking from the Brit- — These arc some developments on

are moving toward # non- Virgin and Puerto Rico. sshsidewasloogremt  - ___ Foreign airlines. On March 1, Cs

; smoking agreement for air- wi Hawail and within Alasku Here. are some recent. devel- the’ Pacific will. ban smoking on

line Rights linking their countries, and also to of. from these two states. opments on U.S. airlines. flights between: its home base In

The are going on in several f the Might is less than six hours. On Jan, 12, Northwest climinated. Hong Kong and Europe. which the

i Washington and This ban affects U.S.-Hicenced air- smoking in its First-class cabins on. line says vall: mean that 70 per cent:

 

jontreal, wasters of the Inter ines and foreign carriers flying such ull its Nights, domestle and overseas. of its flights will be nonsmoking. 1

national Civil Aviation Organiza- rovics. . The smail (lrst-class cabin, the air- began. eliminating. smoking on

tion, the United Nations affiiare On July | this year, Canada will’ line said, made it dilficull to segre- Nights to Southeast Asia in 1990 and

that deals with international air ben smo! aboard airlines based gate smokers. The airline said ils says ik expocts to be a “fresh airline”
ndards. in Canada. This date represents 3 customer researehi found 70 percent by 1995. .

Typically. negotiators are postponement from 1993, made ai of all pe preferred smoke- In mid-1993. Air France elimi
about going inte detail. but Don M. the request of Canadian AlctinesIn- free cablos: U/S. and European ine mated smoking on flights to Austris.
Newman, the U.S. delegate to ternational: which stihl allows smok- lernational travellers were 80 per Belgium. Germany. Britain, Ireland,
ICAO, and Jim Weber, the Austra- ing on its Vancouver-Tokyo route, cent in favour und international pas- ltaly, Luxembourg. the Nether-
Yan delegate, ate optimistic zbout an having banned it on all other runs. sengers based in Japan were only 63 tands, Portugal, Spuin and Switzer-
agroement in the next: sia, months. ‘The line says that 75: per cent of percent in favour. Business class still land. The line said {t has su
and Weber said Avsiralia. might passengers on this route come from provides smoking seats. Smoking is’ pusscngers and conducted lests on
complete the fotlow-up Vegisauon Japan, nad 60 per cent of them want anned on, all other Northwest. flights to London, Geneva and Mi-
before the end of the year. tesmoke. A spokeswoman said thal Nights except transoccanik, . lun. Smoking was banned on alt ait-

The four countries involved limit Gunning smoking on this rm would: Startiny March |, United. as a lines’ flights within France in
airline smoking to some degree, but mean a toss of S23-million a year in test, will climinate smoking on Murch, 1990.
such an agreement would tipthe bal-revenuc. Ait Canada banned smok- Flights 90} and 902, a daily round British Airways began @ non-
ance toward nonsmoking flights ing on ull routes worldwide in Sep- trip between Kennedy International smoking trial on Rights from Britain

   
 
 

across the Pacific, Internatianal air- tember. 1990, Alrport and Heathrow ih_London. to-Australia and New Zealand, via
lines- usually say banning smoking f + talks antiGpaig allowing smoking on the other daily Singapore or Bangkok, on Jan. {. If
unilaterally would put them ai 72 flight on this route. , assenpers concur. the line said, the
competitive disadvantage on long i ! ‘ 9 aboard cor nited ‘will also test nonsmoking ban will become permanent. Domes:
Hights. : mercial (gn Sc rsofution. on ils only daily round trip between. the BA flights became nonsmoking

‘Australia now has a rule Forbid- Bpled ia October, 1992, was spon- Los Angules and. Aucklund, New fore years ago, and the line's flighs
Jing smoking on domestic fights, sored by the United States, Canada Zeafund. und Melbourne, Australis. to Europe of 90 minutes or fess be
i 1992, Qantas. in co-operation. and Ausurelia, und was approved by On June 8, the aislinc said, iwillbar came nonsmoking in. September.
with Air New Zealand, banned consensus, $0 countries that: op- smoking on onc daily’round trip be- 9 One of two duily Mighis to Hong
smoking on flights between their posed it did not have le vote cher. tween London and Los Angeles, be- Kong became nonsmoking bast sum-
countries, . . wy. _ tween London snd: San Franciseo mee. In September, British Airway:
New Zculand has « domestic non- at unul 1996 comes. some air and London and Dulles Airport out+ eliminated smoking on onc of its we

smoking nile, and, according to 3" lines are banning smoking oncertain side Washington, daily round tripx between Londor
expert in the Embussy in Washing- routes or flights, either permanently ‘American Airlines banned smok- and Los Angeles and Sun Francisco.
ton, believes that no Further tegise or as & esl. -aban.on onc. ibg on Mights to Canada three years. «= Quntus started a nonsmoking tris

ladon would be required for u wider airline influcnces competing lines. i and on flights to Hawali on Jan. on one Australia-London flight oF
bun. A spokeswoman said harcoun- This is # fluid situation, so people 13. On Muy J, Flight 100, the firs: Jan, $..In Ociober, it bannad smok
Uy wus looking forward to reaching who have medical reasons shoul) evening trip from Kennedy to ing on three nonstop {Tights a weel
pnagreement a5 faad’ sible. check with the line or travel agent to Heathrow Airport in London, will from Sydacy to Los Angeles am
wc Apparently. the United States keum ifthere is a nonsmoking Might become nonsmoking along with the back. In August. alf Qantas flights o
not have to legislate to fulfill a Virgin Adantic is @ case study of retutn. Flight 101. four hours or Jess became nonsmok
four-way ta spokesman smoking and conipeiition, In June, “USA, which has smoking sco- ing. Air New Zealand bars smokin
said lof Trans 1990, the line leaped in with one fool tions on isthree routes to Europe— on flights. between Auckland an
portation believed it had the powcr. and banned: ingenone oftbrec  Piutsbur Frankfurt, Philadelphia- Los Angeles via Honolulu, Fiji. Te
to udd other provisions to its exiat- flights between New York-Newark Parisund Charlotte, N.C.-Fraokfurt hiti; the Cook Islands, Western St
img rule. -- and London. in September, when it — has more demand than smoking moa and Tonga. .

pPSsOTep202