investigate health outcome as such. but it provided answers to the questions raised
about compliance. effect of pncing erc.. atlowing Gesign work to gO ahead tor tne

“pilot” scale study.

Publications i
Peach. H.. Bliard, G. A. Jenner. P. J.. Morns. A.W. A smole inexpensive unne test of os
smoking. Thorax 40, 351-357 (1985). a
Peach. H., Hayward. 0. M.. Shah. D. Ellard. GA A double bind rancom:sed

controlled tnal of the effect of a low versus 8 middie tar exgarerte on rebar ony

symptoma—s feasibility study. Presented 3t International Conterence (WHO) on ;
Smoking and Hes'*h, Moscow. 1985 (in: A major imternsponel hesith hazard, ee

eds. O. G. Zaridze. R. Peto. IARC. Lyon. p- 251-263). gz tow
The study among fat can toot advantage ot waiting pean recrued some

13 yeors earlier a8 part of tne Heart Disease Prevention Project organised onginalty by
professor Rose and tis colleagues. This formed one of the few available groups for

wmich there wes hestoncal intormabon on brand of cigarettes smoked, and for whom =
paseline data on respiratory symotoms and tung function were avsilabie, Accessible :
subjects who were soil smokers were seen again in 1984 and thew lung funcnon wet uf
While more men stopped producing phlegm emong smokers who hed dropped one Fit
group. there seemed to be no extra benefit from having dropped two groups. Since
Swe of meauine metabolites mn the urine were not related to Cropping tar Group. K
vrdle iasue examined wes the extent to which smokers were able to describe thew Pest
(or even current) habits accurstety. “
Publicapons

Peach, H., Shah, O., Morns, A.W. Validity of smokers’ information about present and
past exgaretre brands—implicapons for studies of the effects of falling tar yieids Of
cxgarettes on heaith. Thorax 41, 203-207 (1986).

Peach. H., Hayward. D. M. Ellard. O. R. Moms. RW. Shah. 0. Phiegm producton
and lung functrron among cigarette gmokers changing tar grouls dunng the 1970s.

J. Epsdem. Comm. Health 40, 110-116 (1985).

PLBO LZ8OS