PROJECT 20

PROJECTS 21. 22, 23

RESEARCH SYMPOSIA

“any

damage in body fluias. Smoking markers will include cotinine, expired air carbon
monoxide ard carboxvhaemogiobin. The proposed programme of work will “vestigate
the effects of dietary antioxidant :atake in smokers, recruited by tar y.eid, as well ax "ne
etfects of suppiementation with oharmaceutical Joses of vitamins © and C in oreventing
free radical mediated camage.

Relationship between cigarette smoking. nicotine/tar yield and bone density.
St. Bartholomew's Medical College. (Or. M. '.aw) (February 1988 for
2 years).

With the current epidemic of fractured neck of the femur in the eiderty and the risk of
fracture being 30-fova nigher for iow bone density. a cross-sectionai epidemiological
study of 7.000 wumen aged 35-64 veers has been pianned. It wiil investigate the
effects of smoking: whether this effect relates in a dose-dependent manner to the
amount smoked, to the nicotine/tar yield of cigarettes, and to tobacco smoke :ntake as
judged by serum cotinine measurement and attemot to determine a mechanism for the
effect of smoking on bone density for example through a reduction :n the generation of
active oestrogen metabolites. (This project 1s conditional upon approval of final details
of the protocol). -

Influence of reducing tar. but maintaining nicotine, delivery on tar retention
in males and females. UK AEA. Harwell (Dr. J. Pritchard) (Aoril 1988 for
1§ years).

These three projects will provide additional information to that generated in Project 6 -n
which preliminary -ntormation suggests that for miadie tar naie smokers who switcred
to lower yielding products. there is a significant influence of nicotine delivery on ‘ar
deposition. other faczors being equal. Female smokers are to be inciuded since it “as
been established tha: :ne depos:tion of inert particies tn the respiratory tract of women
1s different to that of men at a g:ven size and inspiratory flow. Estadiisned riddle ‘ar
smokers will be askec to smoke he Tiddile tar;middie nicotine Drand used previousiv 1
project 6 for 8 weeks and then swiich to the same low tar; madie sicotine brand (as
used in the latter 16 weeks of project 6) for a further 22 weeks. Laboratory studies wiil
be as before. The final phase of tne study will draw together the information gained
from this programme of work.

The Committee agreed to initiate a senes of symposia on topics within its field of
interest which would centify gaos in research and help develop new research
proposals. It was agreed that uc to three of these symposia would be funded by DHSS.
interspersing them with Trust-funded ones where the topic fell within the Trust's remit.
The first symposium. “Nicotine. Smoking and the Low Tar Programme”. funded by the
Trust. was held in November 1986. it examined smoking trends and reiated morality in
the U.K., the toxicity of nicotine with respect to the central nervous system.
cardiovascular disease and cancer, cgarette smoke yields. the resuits of numerous
compensation studies and the determinants of !ow tar smoking and of compensation
paying parucular attennon to the role of nicotine as well as other possibie ‘actors. The
proceedings of the symposium are being published by Oxford University Fress (and
should be available in 1988). It 1s anticipated that this series will continue at
approximateiv annual intervals. Two further topics have been agreed “Smoking and
hormone- related diseases’ and “Effects of smoking in pregnancy and on <he young
child and adolescent’. these wil de DHSS-funded and are scheduled for Autumn 1988
and during *989 resoectively. Czner oossibie topics for tne future inciude The retative
nsks of afferent ta0acco products . Smoking cessavon—effects on heaitn” and “The
outcome of Trust-furced reserrcn ”

OB8O LZ8O0S