PROJECT 16

PROJECT 17

PROJECT 18

PROJECT 19

The feasibility stage of tre studv descr:Ded above will be concucted :n two Separate ON .

halves to tes: recruitment. compliance-and the clinical criteria of assessment of '"2
outcome messures: A g
vw) an ourpatent middle tar group of smokers. Diaced ON a surgical waiting ‘st.
followed for 4 weens onty
(i) a surgical inpatient ‘macie tar smoker group. followed for the duration of hospital
admission.

&

The use of models of cigarette srrnoke-related vascular damage in comparing
different smoking materials. University College and Middlesex School of
Medicine. (Professor N. Woolf/Dr. RA. M. Pittilo) (January 1988 for 3 years).

The differences between a vanety of cigarettes and cigarette filter systems wi'l be
rvestigated on the artenai wail using :n vitro and .A vivo cecnniques (nf che former, she
effecss of plasma. from numan volunteers after smoxing and from animals after
exposure to smoke derived ‘rom different types of cigarettes. will De studied on the
morphoiogy (extent of damage. number of Weibel-Palade bodies. number and size of
plasmaiemmiai vesicies) and function (prostagiandin [2 production. cell viability, ATP
production) in cultured nesothelial and endothelial cells. in the latter. rats exposed to
ropacco smoke for periods ranging from 30 minuces to 13 weeks (acute-—sudacute).
will be studied for morpnorogy of aortic endothelium (as above) and abuity of rings of
aoc tissue to produce arestagianain '2.

Effects of a range of cigarettes on the developing embryo. using the
curly-tail mouse. an animal model of human neural tube defects. Guy's
Hospital (Or. M. J. Seller) (January 1988 for 3 years).

Mice with a known genetc predisposition to neural tube defects (the incidence of
which °s increased by acced environmensal agents; wiil De used to compare the effec:s
of a range of c:garettes with varving weics of tar 3n a Number of parameters 1 early
emorvonic and iate feta! -fe Parameters nonitored wil! inc:ude organogenesis. t:ssve
cell size and numoer. gress witra structure and the mucroanatomy of ceil surfaces.
ntrautenne death. fetal anc Diacenta! weight and size ana tne :nc:dence of congenital
maiformations, including ~eural tube detects.

Studies on the response of lung cell populations to tobacco smoke
constituents in experimental animais—British Industrial Biological Research
Association (Or. K. Miller) (February 1988 for 3 years).

Experimental animals are 70 De exposed to a variety of tobacco products for wo week
periods 0 Geiermine the effect of topacco smoke on epithelial secretory cells. on free
lung ceils such as alveolar macropnages. and on the amount and nature of secretions
present throughout the respiratory tract. Changes :n secretory cells will be evaluated by
histopathological examination and morpnomernc anaiysis. cell populations present in
bronchoalveola: lavage wiil De quantified. and the ievels of fucose. hexose. protein.
anti-ieucoprotease. IgA and puimonary surfactant in ‘avage fluid determined. (Th's
Project 1s Conditional upen approval of final detaris of the protocol.)

Functional antioxidant status and heart disease in smokers. Rowett Research
Institute (Dr. G. Duthie Dr. J. Arthur/Professor W. James) (April 1986 for
2 years).

On the nypotnesis that smoners may Nave a greater degree of coronary hear disease
mediated bv free radical act-vity of c:rculating lipcoroteins. a number of methods to
assess functional anvoxicanrt status are to De Used On smokers of cigarertes with
varving vields of tar. Metrocs will :nc'uae assessment of siood concentrations of tary
acids. hvdroperoxides. red Siood cell and clasma antioxidants. tssue resistance to

ARM ARY AIRe ctonce raise Sa we a Tete mae ce ee

6480 L?@8O0S

Sr nA