« PROJECT S

 

Monitoring studies at St. Bartholomew's Medical College (Professor %. J.
_ Wald)}—biochemical epidemiologicel reseerch. (June 1984 for 4 yeers).

posabiltty of mulnptying the population base several-fold. so that 11 may become
possible to obtain definitrve informanon sooner than from any one study taken
Mdamduaily. ; .

"Fs

The third component is the provision of an analytical service for connine for other
projects funded by the Trust but without in-house facitines.

Publicasnons
Barlow, R. O.. Stone. A.B. Waid. N. J. Pub . EV. J. The direct barditune acid
assay for mcotine metabilites in unne: a metne test for the routine

ment of smoking status and cigarette smoke intake. Chn. Chim. Acta. 165, 45-52
987).
Bariow. R. D.. Thompson, P. A. Stone. RA. B. Simultaneous ceterminanon of mcotne.
Cconnine and five additonal nicotine metabolites in the urine of smokers using pre-
Column denvansstion and high performance Bavid chromatograph. In press

eye

ee apo

 

Smoking component offthe Scottish Heart itealth Study based at Dundes

(Professor H. Tunstall Pedoe) (April 1888 for 43 yeors)
. in this study the oppomuniey has been pk

  

perticuter reference to type of product used. ‘onto the large national study of heart
Gisease funded basically by the Scottish Home ‘ind Heakth Department. The aims of the»:
sub-project are to relate cigarette type. yield and biochemical markers of consumption
sm 14.000 representative men and women sged 40-59 (drawn from 25 local
government distncts in Scotland) to current cardiovascular and respwatory symptoms
and to subsequent cause specific mortality and cancer incidence (there being an
exisnng mechansm for recording that particular disease group at the morbidsty stage).
In addrpon. compensation aspects are being investigated using expired aw carbon
monomde and serum thiocyanste and cotinine measurements. The intenbon ss to make
ava:lable the eventual mortality data for this sample, as well a3 analogous data from the
mrvesngstors are iso Concerned with. 20 the pooking exercise now to be based ar St
Batholomew's (Prosect 9)

ah conconent on sncting. wi a

 

we
ewes

SL8O0 LZ80S