progression of dieesse wes more tepid compared wth e2-pnohers, hee meen age wes
: lower than en-emokers, carbosyheemoyiphen levels were lugher m pebents amok: «g
low-middie and muddle ter cigerettes and the proporson ef pepents emotung tow tar
Cee ee a pec eudyter cece ta ea sna nose (Peet '4).
See

- Mca 8 corse ee cna cosovaes ever ois petea a
induce DNA damage in cultured humen colle of induce mutation in 2
sensitive becterial sesay?. University of (Or. A. Waters/Professor
N. J. Weld/Professor B, Bridges) (October 3 for 3 yeors).

"prokiminary suuties have shown tha sbéiy of cignrene Smake to case DNA demege

- using the senesive sikaline elusian, technique to monser bresks a DMA Unng 0
Seon aetenerspinesceecto
wilt be made. in the first. ONA comage wil be in humen cote (AS49 Rumen
aiveolas tumour cells) by sikaline elubon. wth exposure to phosphete- buffered setne-
Smoke; in the second induced mutshon wall be esmenasted by the bectens! Auctuepon

me eS aad pee : , 2 “ crt 5
“Ooe tha cae bua pelt ng ers vant Charing Grose Weepitat (De, Janet ‘
Powell/Professor R. Greenhaigh/Or. N. Poulter). (October 1967 for five
years).

Thea study has been developed from the prot aescnbyd sbove {Prowe: +2: arc
compnses two components. .

A hospital-based case-control study hes been Ceegned to determmne whet spect
features or cofactors of the smolung habs sre sesoceted wth an ncreseed relebve neh
of penpheral artenal drsease (PAD). All pepents who smoke and who ae Newly
referred to the Channg Cross Hospital Vascular Sernce over 8 fe vee Denod wil! be
recruited into the study (n=640) and Getais of thew gmokin? Ne>t STOkING Meters
and other nsk factors for PAD (scoured by: NO DOOD tests). well BS
compared with a matched control group of smokers Ag “O6Ots ovipspents Bvt
¢ wrote wrotong rolsned crsorsers (0° 1820),

 

 

A retrospectrve and prospecove hospriat-besed longtucne! study hes seo been
Gengned to nvesngate the effects of smoking hebsts wpen the modence of morteMty
and cardiovascular mortacety (myocardial nterceon, suoks, eeemERON ter sere!
FeCONStrTUCDON oF BMpUtEDONR, Bnd progresson ef enenel eccluBen) SmONGE ose aah
PAD. All new penents with PAD referred to the Artenat Cie ot Chenng Crom
Hospital between Anni 1965 (on whom there are computensed *eCords) ond Agrt
1990 will be follow ~d une Agr 1891, thereby generating ever 1.100 senent-yeors of
follow-up. Mortrenry ond moraity date wil bo souwed tum Respan. OP ond OPCS
records On a paneneh, INCAS GORE. es
vi The effect of switching to codeced tar ond alcatine eigerertes on

(A feasibility study) University of Wales College of Medicine (Professor

M. Rosen/Professor M. D. Vickers/Or. P. C. Ehweed). (1988 for 1 yeor).
Comrretred “Middle Tar” smokers who unll aot 209 Saahing wd be ssres 6 weens
Dror to surgery 80 change to lower ter aagerettes end wll be eendemesd eto Pree
groups. tow tar/low mconne. low tar/auddle mOCORNG BAG Cube ter Muscle HCOENO
inceces of smoking (expred CO. unnary coprune) and pest expretory fow ete we be
measured before changeng cagerette Brands on hospts! edruseor and costopes>ve'y
(2 days. acharge and at a follow-up cheuc). Blac en aumbe of seve * “080
epso0ces of chest nleceon and weserent equved wi be Guded.

   

Lee LeROS