patente anos seca eae Cea :

The Committee sought as for 22 possible to use an “intervention” soprosch in trots

 

industry to promote research on the effects of modified products on humsn hesith. A
Charitable trust, the Tobscco Products Research Trust. was set up to administer the
erred tran tect Being considered By the Comenitie end outside refewes, those

 

“ re research rey Comenanded to the Tevet for funding. The

 

to difterentiate between effects of different tvpes of products. in wew of difficulties in
establishing smoking histories adequatety in observational studies. and of the risk of
bias when smokers switch to lower tar products as a result of developing symptoms.
Thus the “core” study at St. Thomas's was developed on that basis. and delays in
embarking on the research programme as a whole were due lergety to the need to
approach this large-scale high-cost study very carefully, with the introduction of an
additional “pre-pilot™ stage before the optimum design could be settied. and there were
& number of unforeseen problems that had to be overcome. |

The tar reduction component of the studies at St. Bartholomew's, and the tar retention
work at Harwell also involve intervention. but thére are fundamental difficulnes in
extending this theorencaity desirable approach to the whole field of the T

actrvines. Not only are costs per subject high. but ethical considerations de the
intervention spproach in respect of some types of study (such as those concerned with
effects in pregnancy). and it clearly cannot be used to examine slowty-developing
Conditions over periods of many years. Hence the Committees has approved several
other epidemiqiogcial studies. mainty in the cardio-vascular field, thet are of
Observational type. A need has aiso been seen for a number of experimental studies. to

-beern more of the croperties and behaviour of the smoke from modified products. In

this, and in respect of other features, links have been established between a number of

the studies funded by the Trust. The same representative cigarettes are. for example,

included in the large epidemiological study (St. Thomas's), the human smoking -

experimental work (Harwell) and the mutagenicity studies st Swansea. Information on Lo
enstytical procedures is exchanged. and in some cases samples are cross-checked by

Gitferent methods between the various centres. or sent to a central laboratory for _ .

assessment.

Provision has aiso been made to poo! data from all the prospective mortality studies
that the investigators are involved in, whether or not the basic funding is from the
Trust. In these and other ways the Commnttee has attempted to develop an integrated
programme. winch in the past year has been extended. following up some of the earlier
pelot work and filling some gaps thst remasned on the scope of Ms actit.o1 ft & hoped
that some of the more recent expermental studies funded will complement the esrker
enetomiunlnne al em Aee

EL8O Lz8es