- University of Oxford (Richard Peto/O:. Rery
years)... Soe eS

te

  

a

    
  

   
   

CT 10
gx

  
   
    
   
    
  
 
  

inducing a variety of biological effects. such as aberrations of mitone cell division.
Structural chromosome aberrapons and aberrations of chromosome number, in Cultured
mammuaiian cetis. The present study is intended to develop this work further. exarmuning
besc and neutral fractions of condensate from different types of cigarettes (including _ :
ee those in use at St. Thomss's) using assays that offer prospects of links not just with the | -
se iNdisting activity but with the promoung activity of the fractions. :
J
PROJECT 11 .- Development of smoke intakes in novice smokers in relation to brand of _ .
- | Cigarettes smoked. Institute of Psychiatry (Addiction Research Unit—Martin:» 2 -<e7-~
Jarvis). (September 1986 for 2 years). ~

The grant hom the Tie pronded snayoc! teins wo line cies of encke
uptake in 8 pilot-scale study among teenage smokers. This is being based primarily on
& large sixth-form college, examining the evolupon over 8 2-year period of smoke
intakes in relapon to brand of cigarette smoked. Most studies of the response of
smokers to sitered tar deliveries of cigarettes have hitherto been conducted among
adults with extensive smoking experience. generally finding some “compenssnon™ for .

 

cote. the reduced deliveries, and the present study explores the response of smokers with’.
ae only short experiences, who may be less set in thei ways.

eR oe

«| ‘ROJECT 12 The smoking profile of patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial
Hae diseese. A pilot study. Charing Cross Hospital (Professor R. Greenhalgh,

Dr. Janet Powell). (September 1886 for 7 months).

This short-term exercise to determine the viability of an enquiry into relationships
between types of cigarettes smoked and the occurrence and/or outcome of penpheral
vascular disease has been completed. Most of the patents sttenckng the Channg Cross
" Arterial Chrmcs have 3 smoking history. and 256 attending for 8 mal penod of 3 months
were atked for more detailed information on habits than hitherto, and indices of smoke
uptake (Carboxyhsemogiobin, connine and ttrocvanste) assessed to develop 8 smoking
Profile for thes type of pavent. Resuits showed inst pepents connnuing 10 smoke,
Smoked more than smokers in the same age-sex groups wn the general populstion, their

LLBO LZ90S

A TT aaa aaa aaa cama aaa amma aa