at

ete a

a

PROJECT 7

a

Away >

 

"the same cigarettes. Half of the subjects then switched to a low tar/low nicotine’ sess:
‘ Gigerette and the other hell 66 & low ter/middie nicotine cigarette, The cigsrets typ
“ are the same as those designated. for the large scale | ptudy be
‘Tromare (Reject 7), ond tea nayee tor Scaane o wel 9 Blochiiea
smoke uptake (exhaled CO and salive and unne cotinine) are included. Six f

Fo ra ee vaca ase ts ond patched open w iter SIO
tarde vicenine brand (containing 9 marainahy lwoher level of nicosne Sen es

 

Pritchard. J. N.. McAughey. J. J.. Black. A A technique for radio-labelling tar
particulate materia! in mainstream cigarette smoke. Journal of Aerosol Science, 1358.
in Press.

Smoking and respiratory symptoms study (pilot phase}-—St. thomas's
Hospital (Professor W. W. Holland) (September 1985 for 3 years).

This large scale intervention study has been developed from the pre- pilot descnbed
above (Projects 1 and 2) and it involves the recruitment of eligible subjects (

smokers of middie-tar cigarettes. aged 18 to 44 who continue to smoke ater retgyving
anti-smoking advice) in over 20 local suthority districts in England. After being ©
stranfied by the presence or absence of respiratory symptoms they are randomly
allocated to smoking one of three types of cigarette, middie tar, low tar/low mcotne.
low tar/mddie mconne. It is estmated that the yeid of volunteers will be around 3.500
(from some 250.000 men approached). and the Gefined period for each to be

“maintained on thy designated cigarette in the pilot phase is 6 months. The prevalence

of respiratory symptoms is being assessed before and at the end of the tial, and
additional respiratory symptoms questions are being asked at 2-weekly intervals °°:
throughout. Butt collection and urine samples for the esimabon of niconne metabolites
are being required in a sub-sample. The objective is to examine within- -subyect changes
in respiratory symptoms in relation to the type of cigarette smoked over the 6 month
period, and to examine further the extent to which these volunteers compensate for any
change in nicotine yreid involved in thew switch to the different cogsrette types. The
study is a “pilot” insofar as it will test whether compliance remains sdequate
throughout a 6 month period and whether that proves to be 8 long enough pme for
changes in symptoms to become apparent.

 

Publicanons

Holland, W. W.. Colley, J. R. T.. North, F. Low-tar cigarettes put to the icst. Lancet 2.
156, (19868).

9180 Lzses