aoe ee
ee epee tee "

the EEC’member countries contain le

42.1 Alternative Expansion Ee pee Sag ts Be or

_industry, appropriate. chemical an
- the chemical: companies and v various regulatory agencies. | geo ty Bie pa shoe

Lee a ne ems Foe
. . '

“ sa . ° Bot .
coo ‘ . as Te .
Lo . ” : os : mo “he. :
Ce BR ut re
ete wor Oe 2a 2 . ‘ tots : “eo .
4 Te # te gan ae ‘ ht o KOS ae

Expanded tobacco i is 5 used i in : tobagco blends and cigarettes to improve the smokin Care Vinge ah,
characteristics of cigarettes and to keep the “tar” and nicotine levels within the r bced: range cS

. preferred by smokers and requested by various governmental nein authorities seg. t the oi

nited Kingdom's Independent Committee for: smoking and Hi 8 Lists tac ihet -

The use of tobacco expansion ag agents is consistent with and essential tothe séoommendations ete,

of groups Such as the United Kingdom $ Independent Scientific Conimittee on ecoarch Unt gd

Health, ("Froggart Committee"); Smoking Research Section of the:Addiction Research Unit =: :

(U.K) and the United States. ational Cancer Institutes § Smoking and Health Program.

addition, the European Economic Community "Sag rb oy i. Th that all cigarettes Ee told in 3°
ss than 1 These ¢ recommendations et

and regulations can be met with expanded tobacco elit cn 4

 

- The. Independ ent Scientific Committee on. Smo xg seconiménded i in: their. second -
report (1979),
. to achieve further reductions in average tar yield of rain fr in the near future.

under recommendation number 23 that “... much could still be done echnicaly i” .

committee recommends that the secretaries.of State obtain from manufacturers co-operation we |
for the achievement of further substantial reduction i in tar yee 12) Tobacco expansion is is.

~ one method which allows tar reduction. coe : oe

_ * Over 99% of the 540 billion cigarettes manufactured i in 1990i in the . United States contained |

"low tar” tobacco. proximately 60% of the cigarettes sold in the USA are low tar products.
(less than 15mg” ay eihich could not be manufactured without expanded tobacco. The
average tar yield of US manufactured. cigarettes has been reduced from 22 mg in 1967 t0 11.5" |
mg in 1988. This reduction in tar yield was a result of consumer taste preference for -.- ..; °° .
igarettes containing expanded tobacco and recommendations from n governmental and health of
elated: groups in many countries. . _

_ Apatented process using CFC 11 or other similar or compounids can be used to 5 expand th the «

volume of dried, aged tobacco back to its original field volume. The process using CFC 11 i is: a
currently the. most widely used process in the world. The CFC'11 process is desirable as a
method of expanding tobacco because it itis very effective and non. jazardous to workers or
consumers. —_ .

tame a
Rae :

Alternative expansion agents, currently under development ins international chemical
companies are bein ng evaluated by the tobacco industry as replacements for CFC 11. There -
are currently several potential alternatives that may be available within the next few years. _
The tobacco and chemical industries are working co-operatively to produce alternatives as
quickly as possible. However, these alternatives must.t ¢ apPropraitely evaluated for enti.
environmental and health effects. . ;

The at: leading candidate for replacing C CFC1 Ni is s HCFC 13. ‘Sufficient wantities sof the
commercial material have been manufactured for environment, exposure and hazard a
assessment studies. In addition, to the chemical industry's hazard assessment of HCFC 123, Met.

the tobacco industry has spent approximately 4 million dollars (US) evaluating this alternative .

tobacco expanding agent in the expansion process, Before this material is used by the tobacco...‘ ”
toxicological data will be: reviewed d by the tobacco industry, .. a

 

SQT9 6820S