in org iO nave th BU OSU LU Ls ADDFOVeY LOK Use ID Gue! CAE Lan Whtls KOU:

. investments are required in research and administrative effort. Considering the small market _
_ to be expected for a substitute LFF process, it is not likely that anyone would make that. = -

- investment within the foreseeable future. If somebody does, approvals are more uncertain and
__-, will take longer than for CFC 12, maybe some ten years. : sy gee be ee ae

Even if the substitutes are very similar to CFc 12, the equipment will require considerable...  :
- development. This will hardly. appear:to be-a good investment as Jong as-the-uncertainty just. °°)
. « mentioned prevail. 90 0 oe Soe ee a FE
Many LFF procéssors feel uneasy about the association of their product with CFCs. Severalof : =
them are already switching to other methods. Considering that an investment will lastfor =
_ some 20 years, any ‘processor would need to see the public accept the new chémicals for quite __
. some time, before they would be prepared to tie themselves to a.continuing association with =:

2 RR TP OED or ge eee

_No work has been conducted on the use of HFC: 134a for this application and it is unlikely- . °° - -
that any will be done in the future...” ghee ada Te Bese nes re

FEE ee a cae eR NEL om Eo wee te

4.15 Summary and Conclusions oo
The consumption of CFC ‘12 for food freezing in 1986, worldwide, was estimated to be about
3,400 tonnes, used in some 30 units. The major part of this consumption (about 3,000 tonnes)
was located in the USA. The process, called "Liquid Freon Freezant )”, was used
primarily to freeze seafood and corn-on-the-cob (with a CFC consumption of aboyt1,500 .
tonnes for each product) and raspberries. Most of the equipment was installed before 1974
but has along expectedlife. =. a, we ete
This CFC consumption can be totally eliminated using currently available alternative freezing
methods - primarily the cryogenic techniques (LIN), which use'liquid nitrogen, and air blast a
. freezing.” ese methods are already competitive for most products, except for some gradesof = |
raw S Pp. , Te ote es

For-some shtimp processors, process development and/or investment in more thanone si
process may be necessary. Many shrimp processors are small enterprises. Some maynotbe. -..
able to sustain development costs or survive poorly utilized investments. . .. Oo

- New chemicals such as HFC 134a can.theoretically be used in modified LFF units. The higher __
cost, the need for extensive testing and approval for use in direct-contact with food, andthe =~
cost of retrofitting equipment, as well as the anticipated public reaction, however, make it
- very unlikely that this option will be chosen.) 6 ks ne

- eee Ex fotupron
war Tobacéo Paiting " “fA So ye ues es
. \ CFC'11 is used to reduce the bulk density of-cigarette tobacco. The shredded tobacco is ae
in liquid CFC 11 and is then passed through.a kiln, where the CFC evaporates, puffs...
up the tobacco and decreases thé tobacco density. This reduces the amount of tobaccoused- = os,
and thereby the amount-of tar-per cigarette, yn at
The process originated inthe USA and is also used by European and Asian cigarette. ~~ .
manufacturers. It is the most widely used expansion process. ee ™

= , on . Lt. . ©
. an Se : : wo
| , " ~ yee a Be y an
ATTACHMENT. Po | s