2-May-85

VIA ELECTRONIC MAIL

MEMORANDUM
TO: Bill Buckley
FROM: Michael Brozek
RE: Daily Minnesota Update

sane ene wee ee eee OE ee Oe eee

Bill, as per your instruction, here is a report on our
progress with regard to legislative matters in the state of
Minnesota. For purposes of order, we will approach this report
from the aspects of legislative program and legislative support.

LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM:

As decided on Friday, April 26 in Minneapolis, at a meeting
attended by legislative counsels from the Tobacco Institute, R.
J. Reynolds and Philip Morris, which included Dale Florio of
Philip Morris and Kent Wold of R. J. Reynolds, specific
legislators were assigned to industry lobbyists for direct
lobbying contact. This activity is being monitored daily in
order to determine any shifts or progress in the Senate Finance
Committee and House Appropriations Committee. A meeting will be
held on Thursday, May 2 at 2:00 p.m. at the Capitol Rotunda in
St. Paul, in an attempt to document legislative responses and
comments. These meetings will be held daily until further
notice.

Tentatively, the Senate Finance Committee will meet Monday,
May 6 at 8:00 a.m., to hear testimony on the Senate version of
the cigarette tax/Health Department package (SF 776). A
representative of Covington and Burling, either Mr. Rupp or Mr.
Beder, will be on site to offer testimony at this hearing.
Additionally, Mr. Vernon Dempsey will be present for direct
legislative contact on Friday, May 3 in discussions concerning
the sampling issue.

An additional approach has been undertaken to deal directly
with the Attorney General's office, concerning a legal opinion to
the legislature, regarding the sampling ban portion of SF 776 and
HF 810. Legislative counsel Tom Kelm, in meetings with the
Justice Department, has requested review of this legislation
within the context of the federal preemption. It is understood
that these conversations have been, and will continue to be
confidential.

CONFIDENTIAL: TIMN 457963
MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION