a
a
“Bi

~ 4

HHS

~~

ery
g

wee

be — et — pg

 

50

smokers tend to lack self-esteem and lack social confidence, others found
no definite relationship. Adolescent smokers tend to be more anxious than
their non-smoking peers. There is a suggestion of a link between smoking
and feelings of helplessness, and reports that smokers have a poorer sense
of efficacy than do non-smokers. Others find a connection between smoking
and rebelliousness. Similarly, smokers tend to have less-positive atti-
tudes toward authority than do non-smokers. Of course, measures of person-
ality must be viewed with caution because they often do not represent inde-
pendent or stable characteristics.

The associations categorized above may be interpreted in terms of a general
theory of social learning. Parents, siblings, and peers who smoke and
other observed smoking (such as through the media) would influence beliefs
about the consequences of smoking, that it is a sign of maturity or a way
of reducing stress. These beliefs would then make the young person more
likely to experiment with cigarettes. Socioeconomic status may describe
the environment from which a child derives beliefs and which influences
psychological factors. Similarly, participation in athletic, academic,
delinquent, or family-based activities may influence the development of

psychological factors.

There are various possible interactions of psychological factors with
other influences. For example, low self-esteem might increase an ado-
lescent's tendency to imitate friends who smoke, to accept their beliefs
about the benefits of smoking, and to accept cigarettes when they are
offered. Self-esteem, anxiety, and rebelliousness may also interact with
particular beliefs in influencing smoking. The adolescent who believes
that smoking is a way of appearing "cool" may seek to foster that image
if he or she is low in self-esteem. An adolescent who believes that
smoking can reduce stress would be especially prone to smoke if she or
he is anxious. If smoking is perceived as a symbol of independence, the
rebellious youngster would be Likely to smoke.

Results and Conclusions

A number of studies were initiated with the intention of describing
psychological factors that affect the cognitions and behavior of young
adolescents and of developing ways to measure those factors. In ad-
dition, we wished to describe the structure of the young adolescent's
beliefs about the consequences of cigarette smoking and to develop
techniques for measuring those beliefs. We gathered a large number of
questionnaire items and followed Armor (1974) in selecting those items
that would serve as indicators of the relevant factors we discerned. We
applied the technique of confirmatory factor analysis to assess the
degree to which our selections were good ones, and we examined the re-
liabilities, distributions, and stabilities of the factor scores. These
analyses assured us that we have measured meaningful constructs, and
further tests indicate that the constructs will be useful in testing
our theoretical model.

8L82% 6LH0S