There is, of cou

theory of social
In simple terms,

This complex set
This model propos
of ways. In one
consequences of b
(arrow c). Theor

smoking behavior.

Beliefs about the
smoking causes oth
ly correlated with

explain any human behavior. But in the behaviora

of transactions between an individual and the
and punishments that are encountered in the en
the environment may often be mediated by cogni
observed events are assimilated into specific
quences of different actions and circumstances
very specific beliefs regarding the consequences of various behaviors and
situations and regarding the values of those consequences. Specific en-
vironmental circumstances may lead to patterns of response such as the
proclivity for self-derogation, anxiety, or hostility.
may also influence psychological factors, which we see as constructs
with enduring characteristics that influence cognitions.

" 49

Application of Social Learning Theory

rse, no general model that is universally accepted to

1 sciences a general
learning has gained broad support (Bandura, 1977)/>,
this broad theory proposes that behavior is the product
social models, rewards,
vironment. Learning from
tive processes in which
beliefs about the conse-
+ Thus a person may develop

The environment

of reciprocal Processes may be diagrammed as in Figure 1.
es that one's environment influences behavior in a number
process, one's environment influences beliefs about the
ehavior (arrow a), which in turn influence behavior

ies of selective exposure suggest that beliefs may influ-

ence one's environment (arrow b). If we Perform a behavior without at-
tributing it to external causes, we will tend to see that behavior in a
positive light; thus, behavior influences beliefs (arrow d). There are
certainly other processes by which one's environment influences behavior
and behavior influences one's environment (arrows h and 8, respectively).
The associations among environment, beliefs and behavior are influenced
by psychological factors (arrows i, j, and k), which influence and are
influenced by one's environment (arrows e and f, respectively).

The many different variables that have been reported to correlate with
smoking among adolescents can be organized into the general categories

in Figure 1 as a first step toward constructing a more specific model ta,
explain their influence. A child's environment offers two types of infor-

havior. Observations of others smoking contribute to smoking-related
cognitions, and implicit or explicit social standards in certain settings
may either encourage or discourage smoking behavior. The sheer availa-
bility of cigarettes also influences smoking. Smoking by parents and
siblings and smoking by peers have been shown to correlate with adolescent

personal benefits of smoking and expectations that
ers to perceive one as "cool" or "tough" have frequent-
smoking. Psychological factors are less consistently

associated with smoking. Though some investigations have found that young

 
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
 
  
   
   
   
  
 
   

L487 6Lh0S