“tee
at?

SS RBS Rte em ed te eyes pep dey

Fe.
Bm
ve

 

ma
=

48

A PRACTICAL THEORY FOR SMOKING PREVENTION ) G£C

School of Public Health
Harvard University
Boston, Massachusetts

Introduction

Despite increasing awareness of the long-term consequences of heavy

smoking® the proportion of adolescent males smoking has remained constant
while the proportion of young females smoking has increased two-fold2.

Most educational and persuasive programs in public schools do not appear

to deter the onset of smoking”. The recognition that narrow strategies

of prevention are not effective has led researchers to probe the problem
more carefully in search of the critical social and psychological factors
and processes which determine the onset of smoking4>:’, Notions of how and
why adolescents start smoking hgve yielded some promising early results in
recent intervention studies®»4» » but despite considerable attention to the
subject, no comprehensive model of the onset of smoking has been articulated.

Comprehensive reviews of the literature®»? list many different variables
that have been associated with smoking among adolescents, but these vari-
ables are usually only categorized rather than constructed into a general
explanatory model. Individual research reports have tended to concentrate
on only a few of the factors that may be directly related to smoking rather
than complex models of direct, indirect, and interactive effects. Thus,
our understanding of how and why young people become habitual cigarette
smokers has remained at a fairly basic level.

Investigators studying adolescent alcohol and drug use, behaviors which ~
are strongly correlated with cigarette smoking!0, have proposed and re-
searched models of the onset of. those behaviors, but they have tended f°
be more descriptive than explanatory. For example, Jessor and Jessor!
show that marijuana use is correlated with a lack of conventional social
and personal values and control. Similar findings are reported with
respect to alcohol**. Kandel (1975)! Proposes stages of adolescent
involvement in the use of various substances and provides data which
show that experimentation with cigarettes, beer, and wine usually pre-
cedes the use of stronger licit and illicit substances. Smith and Fogg
(1978)14 focus on the role of personality and find that those who smoke
and use drugs do not conform to adult expectations regarding obedience
and self-control. Thus, this line of inquiry has been relatively unsuc-
cessful at generating an explanatory model of substance-use onset.

In this paper we will Present a general model describing the causes of ;
cigarette smoking and describe some studies undertaken to validate the —p
model. %

9L8T 6LHOS