THE WALL STREET JOURNAL WEDNESDAY, APRIL 24, 1994 BAL

Exposure to Workplace Tobacco Smoke
Is Greater Than Believed, Study Says

By Trmorsy oar
Staff Reporcer of Tax Wau. Srtmer JovRNAL
WASHINGTON — Passive smake in the
workplace might be a much bigger health
danger than U.S. Workers have been led to
halieve, according fo a new government
study.
The new findings come from the Cen-
ters for Disease Control, and appear in a

Hearts and Wallets at Odds
Iva wilikely that sither individuals or
‘mutual funds will be able to kek the
habit of investing in tobacen companice,
Fund Track, page C1.

special issue of the Journal of the Ameri-
catt Medical Association on the heaith
impacts of tobacco, At a news conference
yesterday te publicize the journal’s re-
search, AMA officials urged investors to
avoid 13 stocks and 1,474 mutual funds that
invest in tobacco manufacturing. The AMA
Shed {ts own tobacco holdings in 1986.

The passive-sinoke findings represent
fhe most extensive data ever compiled on
nonsinokers’ exposure to cigarette smoke
in the U.S. The new information will likely
add ballast t antismaking groups’ efforts
at the federal, state and local levels to ban
smoking in office buildings and other
public places. .

According to the study, 87.9% of all
nonsimkers in the U.S. have detectable
levels of cotinine in their blood. Cotinine is .
a nicotine residue chat turns up in the blood
Serum of individuals exposed to tobacco
smoke. The survey, conducted from 1988 to
1991, involved physical examinations of
12,678 Individuals nationwide,
Nousmokers Understate Exposure

Of the noasmokers surveyed. 12.4%
reported they were exposed fo tobacco
smoke at work only, compared with 7.7%
whe reported (hey were exposed to tobacco
stnoke at home only; 38.8% reported no
exposure at ali, and 3.1% reported expe
Sure at both home and work.

The JAMA study offers strong evidence
fhat people tend to understale their expo
sure to passive smoke. There is a wide gap
between nonsmokers who say they are

‘exposed to tobacco smoke — 37% of adults
and 43% of children — compared with the
37.9% whose cotinine shows they are ax-
posed. This gap is significant because most
previous studies of workplace paasive-
stoke exposure, many af them funded by
the tabacco industry, relied on survey data
rather than blood samples. :

Even though the stody found that mora
noUSMmOKers are exposed to tobacco smoke
at work than at home, the study makes
Clear that the amount of nlentine absorbed
inte @ nonsmoxer’s bloodstreatt is likelier
to ba higher iF one lives with 2 smoker than
if one works with one. Nonstokers ex-
Posed to tobacco at home had roughly twice
as Much cotinine in their blood as nen-

   

  
        
   

smokers exposed (o tobacco at work.

The federal Occupational Health and
Safety Administration has proposed a rep-
ulation that would ban virtually ail smok-
ing in the workplace. Bui the agency has
moved slowly in issuing a final rule ~ it
isn't expected this year — partly because
agency officials aré combing through a
mountain of public comments and partly
because of budget euts. The new findings
were made avaliable to OSHA before its
comment period on the smoking rule ended
in mid-January. ‘

The Environmental Protection Agency
declared passive smoke a carcinogen
nearly four years ago, but thelr finding has
stirred some controversy in the scientific
community, A racent report by the Con-
gressional Research Service expressed
such uncertainty on the opie that advo-
cates far and against tobacea both claimed
vindication from it.

But James Firkle, the study's lead
author, yesterday said the new findings
are “much better data than the CRS report
ever looked at." ‘

But Brennan Dawson, a spokeswoman
forthe Tobacco Institute, said of the JAMA
findings, “It's net a health-effects study.”
She said the shidy focused on nicotine
exposure as measured in “molecules, and
that the source of these wace amounts
might be certain foods, such as tomatoes or
potatoes, or a “momentary whiff" of to-
bacco smoke.

 

SiddOW diTiHe WabP 1G 96.

S2 Yd’

VS6ZESE90Z