Complexes of Ras-GTP with Raf-1 and
Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase

Shonna A. Moodie,* Berthe M. Willumsen, Michael J. Weber,
Alan Wolfman

‘The guanosine triphosphate (GTP)—binding protein Ras functions in regulating growth and
differentiation; however, little is known about the protein interactions that bring about its
biological activity. Wild-type Ras or mutant forms of Ras were covalently attached to an
insoluble matrix and then used to examine the interaction of signaling proteins with Ras.
Forms of Ras activated either by mutation (Gly12Val) or by binding of the GTP analog,
guanylyl-imidodiptiosphate (GMP-PNP) interacted specifically with Raf-1 whereas an ef-
fector domain mutant, lle36Ala, failed to interact with Raf-1. Mitogen-activated protein
kinase (MAP kinase) activity was only associated with activated forms of Ras. The specific
interaction of activated Ras with active MAP kinase kinase (MAPKK) was confirmed by
direct assays. Thus the forming of complexes containing MAPKK activity and Raf-1 protein

are dependent upon the activity of Ras.

 

The majority of cellular Ras in quiescent
cells is in the inactive guanosine diphos-
phate (GDP)-bound. conformation. Stimu-
lation of cells with mitogens or differentia-
tion factors increases the abundance of the
active GTP-bound form of Ras (1). The
activity of Ras is required for regulatory
signaling by plasma membrane tyrosine ki-
nase oncogenes and receptors (2). Blocking
the action of Ras, either by microinjection
of antibodies or through the expression of a
dominant negative mutant, prevents the
activation of the cytosolic serine-threonine
protein kinases Raf-1 and MAP kinase (3,
4). The expression of activated Ras, either
in whole cells or in vitro activates thesc
cytosolic serine-threanine protein kinases

§. A. Moodie and A. Wolfman, Oepartment of Cell
Biology, Cleveland Clinic foundation, 9500 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106.

8. M. Willumsen, Institute of Microbiology, University
of Copenhagen, @ster Farimagsgade 24, OK 1353
Copenhagen, Denmark.

M. J.-Weber, Department of Microbiology, Health

Sciences Centre, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
VA 22908.

*To whom correspondence should be addressed

1658

(5-7). These cytosolic enzymes can func-
tion as part of a kinase cascade, in which
MAP kinases are activated by a MAPKK
(8), which in turn can be phosphorylated
and activated by the Raf-1 protein kinase
(9). The components of this pathway may
not always be coupled to each other, how-
ever, because neither Ras or Raf-1 activates
MAP kinases in Ratla cells (10).

Though it is clear that Ras participates
in signaling between the cell membrane
and the cytosol, the biochemical interac-
tions that mediate the action of Ras are
poorly understood. To determine if Ras
might physically interact with cytosolic
signaling components in a GTP-depen-
dent manner, we covalently bound recom-
binant c-Ha-Ras (referred to as Ras) to
silica beads activated by an N-hydroxyl
succinimide group (11, 12). The coupled
Ras was active in binding guanine nucle-
otides and has been used to examine
interactions between Ras and neurofbro-
min, a regulator of Ras function (12). The
immobilized Ras was used to probe rat
brain cytosol for signaling proteins that

SCIENCE * VOL. 260 * 11 JUNE 1993

50648850

specifically interacted with Ras-GTP.

Immobilized Ras bound to GMP-PNP. (a
nonhydrolyzable GTP analog) formed a sta-
ble complex with Raf-1 (Fig. 1A). Approx-
imately 15% of the total cytosolic Raf-1
associated with immobilized Ras-GMP-
PNP. The transforming Ras mutant,”
Ras¥#!!2 bound to GMP-PNP, was about
10% as effective as wild-type Ras in forming
stable complexes with Raf-1 (Fig. LA). An
even. smaller amount of Raf-1 associated
with the GDP-bound form of Ras¥#4?, A
form, of Ras with a mutation in the effector
domain, Ras*'36, bound to either GDP or
GMP-PNP failed to bind detectable
amounts of Raf-1 (Fig. 1B). Thus, the stable
association of Raf-1 with immobilized Ras
correlated well with the formation of the
active GTP-bound form of Ras.

We investigated the GTP-dependent as-
sociation of Ras with MAPKK and MAP
kinase, which have been reported to func-
tion downstream of Raf-1. Immunoprecipi-
tates of MAP kinase from the rat brain
lysate did not catalyze the phosphorylation
of myelin basic protein (MBP) in the pres-
ence of {y-**Pladenosine triphosphate
(ATP) (13). This enabled us to use the
activation of endogenous MAP kinase ac-
tivity as an assay for MAPKK. Incubation
of cytosolic proteins bound to immobilized
Ras:GMP-PNP with ATP produced soluble
kinase activity with a high substrate speci-
ficity for MBP as compared with cither
histone or casein (Fig. 2A) (14). The sol-
uble kinase activity was also detected with

Fig. 1. Association of
Raf-1 with immobilized
Ras. (A) Lysate was in-
cubated with immabi-
lized Ras-GDP {lane 1},
Ras-GMP-PNP (jane 2},
Ras’*"?-GDP (lane. 3),
or Ras¥#!?-GMP-PNP
(lane 4) for 60 min at
4°C (15); 2x Laemmli
sample buffer was add-
ed to the sedimented
material and the eluted
proteins were analyzed
by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electropheresis
(SDS-PAGE}, transferred, and immunoblotted
with a rabbit polycional antibody to Raf-1. The
position of Raf-1 is denoted by the arrow.
(B) As in (A) except that lysate was incu-
bated with immobilized Ras-~GMP-PNP (lane 1),
Ras“'935-GDP (lane 2), or Ras*'#26-GMP-PNP
(lane 3). Control immunoprecipitation of lysate
with the antibody revealed a single band of 68
kD whereas the rabbit non-immune serum did
not react with this protein. Quantitation of Raf-1
bound to immobilized Ras was done on a phos-
phorimager and expressed as the percentage of
Raf-1 protein immunoprecipitated from identical
amounts of crude lysate. Comparable amounts
of antibody and lysate were used to those in the
experiment described in Table 1.

A