B) Urine
1) Mutagenicity in the Ames bacterial mutation assay

RATIONALE: The assessment of adverse biological activity is an important
aspect of product development. While important preliminary information can be,
and due to ethical considerations must be, obtained from in vitro systems and
animal models the ultimate species of interest is the human being. Thus,
measuring biological activity in human beings following exposure to the agent
of interest is an integral part of safety assessment. Traditionally, urine and
blood cells(lymphocytes) from exposed human beings have been used to assess
exposure to biologically-active materials. These techniques are the two most
widely used methods for assessing biological activity in human beings and have

been used by scientists around the world to maasure the biological activity of
cigarette smoke. *

EXPERIMENTAL METHODS
SUBJECTS: Number of groups = 33 one non-smoking control group and two test

groups
Subjects per group = approximately 25 Coe
; Sex = each group should be one-half male, one-half female ~
Age = 21 to 654 each group must be matched for age 7
Health = all potential subjects should be in good physical condition
with no recent history of bacterial illness

subjects which contract a bacterial illness during the study

should be dismissed

whack, fo = Drug use = all subjects must refrain from drug use during the study.
WY s

~The only exception will be moderate amounts of
a” acetaminophen or ethyl alcohol.

. Diet = All subjects must be on an identical diet aay, the

study. dovlstfut tii, condition wite

DURATION OF STUDY: This is a topic for further discussion. The study should be
at least four(4) weeks long. A longe would likel fica
benefit.

 

*

 

As mentioned above the two indices of biological activity in this study will be
mutagenic activity in urine and chromosome abnormali -lymphoeytes: The

“mutagens reported to be present in the urine of human cigarette smokers

 

HUMAN STUDY - DRAFT OUTLINE
OCTOBER 6, 1986 )* LEALE
DAVID J. DOOLITTLE :

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the biological activity of selected Cigarettes in human
beings.

INDICES OF BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY WHICH WILL BE MEASURED:

A) Circulating Lymphocytes
1) Chromosomal aberrations
2) Sister chromatid exchanges

$209 Sesos