reportedly have a half-life of approximately 7 hr. and are eliminated by first
order kinetics(Mutation Research, 1985; 157:227-233). Thus, the urine
mutagenicity aspects of the study would be amenable to any study dasign, in
that one would expect to see an increase or decrease in urine mutagenicity
within a few days, if the treatment has any effect on this parameter.
wt Chromosome abnormalities in lymphocytes are a different story. There are, to
my knowledge, no published studies on the kinetics of the lymphocyte chromosome
p fu abnormalities reported to be present in cigarette smokers. All of the published
Me™ studies have simply compared smokers and non-smokers. As far as I can determine
: nobody has asked smokers to stop smoking and then followed the frequency of
ne ( fferronosone abnormalities in their lymphocytes. Thus, if the type of cigarette
We, smoked has an effect on chromosome abnormalities in the lymphocytes we have no
‘ “i @q idea how long we need to follow the subjects to see the effect. Presumably, an
ABP + increase would show up faster than a decrease but this is not clear. The only
rye" data I am aware of which may shed light on this issue is the ethylene oxide
4 data generated by Johnson and Johnson. I have not seen the raw data but the
company has reported that “ there does not appear to be a downward trend in
group levels{[chromosome damage in lymphocytes) for employee groups tested at
[the high-exposure plant] following six months without expoure". The company
termed this finding “unexpected"(Chem. Reg. Rep. 4-2-82). If it takes six
months or more for the reportedly elevated levels of chromosome damage in
smokers to return to baseline the usefulness of this index of biological
activity in the present study may be diminished. Therefore, in my view this
critical question must be addressed prior to deciding upon the length of any
study. A thorough review of the literature is in order and in addition, we hope
to address this question in a collaborative research project with Dr. Vessel at.
Penn State.

The study will be divided into three(3) phases. There will be a pre-test phase
(at least one week long) a test phase (at least two weeks long) and a post-test
phase (at least one week long).

1) pre-test phase = non-smokers will not smoke, both groups of smokers will
smoke identical cigarettes.

2) test phase = non-smokers will not smoke, each group of smokers will smoke a
different test cigarette. These two cigarettes should be different than the
cigarette smoked during the pre-test phase but all three cigarettes should be
similar in nicotine content. .

3) post-test phase = non-smokers will not smoke, both groups of smokers will
smoke identical cigarettes: the same ones smoked during the pre-test phase.

unresolved question: ideally, during the test phase each smoker should smoke
both types of test cigarettes. That way each smoker could be their own control,
allowing for the use of a paired statistical analysis. It is currently not
clear whether there is logistical or biological problems in this approach. The
logistical problem may come into play because this type of study would likely
take longer than the simple one outlined above. The biological problem may come
into play because, as mentioned above, it is currently not clear what the
half-life of a damaged human lymphocyte is.

SAMPLE COLLECTION
Frequency: Samples should be collected twice pre-test, twice
post-test, and at least four times during the smoking
of the test cigarettes

9209 S2Sds