paper was coated in-house with colloidal cellulose using the modified gravure
coater attached to the size press. Good band definition was achieved and
burn rate control was very good at application levels of 3.5 g/m. This
paper will be slit and machine-made cigarettes will be made.

Wood Pulp Cigarette Papers: Subjective testing was conducted by the

Richmond Panel for FF KS models made with Ecusta and Wattens 27 Coresta wood
pulp papers versus the control with Kimberly-Clark wood pulp paper. Both the
Ecusta and Wattens papers were approved for further testing. Due to the
limited use of wood pulp paper at this time, only the Ecusta material has
been ordered for machinability testing.

Tipping Paper Programs: An OC Panel test was conducted to compare
Marlboro Lights 100 tippings printed by Hermetite with a modified lip release

coating (reduced ratio of plasticizer to nitrocellulose) versus the control
tipping. The test tipping has given reduced levels of coating ruboff during
perforation. No significant differences in lip release ratings were obtained
between the control and modified coating formulations applied to either the
Kimberly-Clark or the Ecusta basesheet. Manufacturing Services will conduct
machining evaluations with the modified coating.

EILTER DEVELOPMENT

Web Development: A bobbin of Kimberly Clark cellulose web was
evaluated on the KDF1 Web Corrugator and performed acceptably relative to
Tela paper, The remainder of the bobbin will be converted to paper core
concentric filters at American Filtrona for subjective evaluation as a’
domestic paper filter source.

Eleven bobbins from a single master roll of Gouverneur cellulose web (April
mill run) were tested for runnability and rod RID to determine the effect of
paper machine cross direction variation. Filter samples are currently being
evaluated. Variability was comparable to Tela paper. BOLD 100’s cigarette
samples were then produced with Gouverneur paper core filters. The samples
were submitted to CTSD for analytical testing and to Flavor Technology for
subjective evaluation.

Rods were produced from 5 bobbins of James River Neenah PM Web to evaluate
CB-146 and Jaguar 412 dispersion additives for physical and subjective
performance. Filtration efficiency measurements on Neenah webs containing
CB146 & Jaguar 412 dispersants were equal to that of typical PM Web
materials.

The next PM web mill trial is tentatively scheduled at James River’s
Gouverneur mill the third week in July, pending installation of new pumps and
an agitator. These pieces of equipment will allow CA dispersion at <1.5% in
a low shear environment, conditions determined to be necessary during trials
at James River’s Neenah research facility. A chemical dispersant will be
used to improve CA dispersion. In addition, evaluations are also being

GLGBGLLGOG