High speed plug-space-plug combining trials were conducted at Hauni Hamburg
with Engineering using four different carbons and two plug wraps. Five trays
each of.the filter models were shipped to Richmond and evaluation has begun.

A meeting was held with Jewett Automation (fabricator of the strip
application unit) to discuss the problems encountered. Extensive
modifications are now being made to improve paper threading and reduce
residence time between the glue pot and the cutter head. A meeting was held
with Engineering and Molins to review their development of a high-speed (310
meters/min) production machine.

The appropriation request for the new laboratory coater was approved and the
job was awarded to Fox Valley Limited.

TE 1

JAPAN

PMSL 100 FTB: Prototypes were made in Semi-Works using production
filters supplied by Filtrona UK (24.60 mm circumference and 26,000 CORESTA
plugwrap) to finalize ventilation and tipping paper pressure drop
specifications. Results were received from the factory trial run on 5/8/91
and product specifications for PM Super Lights 100 Regular FTB were issued to
Operations Services. Initial production began on C shift 5/19/91 to produce
the order of 85 million cigarettes. The cigarettes are being monitored on a
shift-by-shift basis for analytical and subjective acceptability.

Marlboro: Marlboro and Marlboro Lights cigarette production began the
week of 5/13/91 with the revised filter specifications in Japan Tobacco’s
Odawara factory. Since the change to the 55% offshore/45% domestic blend in
March, both products have been running slightly high in tar delivery. This
filter modification will bring the products back to the target tar values
(Marlboro 15.0 mg TIOJ tar/Marlboro Lights 11.0 mg TIOJ tar).

Parliament Casing Consolidation: Results were received for the Danchi

II Parliament KS Casing Consolidation evaluation. The following models
tested were:

¢ Parliament KS @ 11 mg - Control Bright Casing
Parliament KS @ 11 mg - Modified Bright Casing
e Parliament KS @ 9 mg - Control Bright Casing

¢ Parliament KS @ 9 mg - Modified Bright Casing

e

Among combined smoker groups, results showed neither type of bright casing
nor tar level had a significant effect on liking scores. Strength ratings
increased significantly due to the effect of the Modified Bright Casing.

PLESCLAGOST