POL 0474 (MB4 filler, full flavor/high menthceol) has closed. Results on
liking showed that this MB4B filler/high menthol model was not rated
significantly different from the B&H filler/high menthol model by the total
panel. In terms of the supplemented panel, results on liking showed that
Newport smokers’ rating of the MB4B filler/high menthol model was higher (not
significant) than their rating of the B&H filler/high menthol model and
Marlboro.

200mm Menthol Monadic Panel: POL 0655 (Doral Lights) has closed.
Results for liking showed that Doral Lights was rated significantly lower
than Merit by the total panel and the ultra low tar-per-puff group. It was
vated similarly to Merit by the other tar-per-puff groups.

POL 0656 (Salem Slim Lights) has closed. Results showed that Salem Slim
Lights was rated the same as Virginia Slims Lights by the total panel and ail
tar-per-puff groups. _

PACKAGING STUDIES

The Penta-Pak molded using G.E. Lexan (clear lid and white base) was
subjectively approved.

The EEC carton insert printed using low odor offset printing inks was
approved analytically and subjectively. Purchasing is evaluating methods to
reduce the time required to print items using these low odor inks.

Samples printed using Eastex waterborne red ink and lacquer were received for
evaluation of residual DEG and the biocide Tektamer 38. Eastex is working on
ways to improve color print quality because the quality of the trial runs was
unacceptable.

PAPER DEVELOPMENT -

Banded Papers: Trials at the U. of Maine using the modified Daubing
Dandy band applicator (to emulate Beloit’s banded paper device) indicate that
Gaulin homogenized Celluion substantially improves application performance.
Although the degree of homogenization does not appear to be highly important,
multiple passes do impart marginal improvements. The Gaulin homogenizer is
being installed in C pilot plant to homogenize Cellulon for Engineering
trials prior to being sent to Beloit.

Banded paper trials using the modified rotogravure type application device at
Beloit are scheduled for the week of June 17. All the materials required for
the banded paper trials have been delivered.

Cigarettes were made in the Semi-Works with conventional paper printed by
Kimberly-Clark with bands of Avicel. The mainstream deliveries were
significantly higher than for the same paper control without bands.
Cigarettes have been submitted for burn rate evaluation. A small quantity of

TLCBGLLSGOG