Comparisons of additive pick-up rates for papers sized by PM vs. Ecusta
indicated low pick-ups for all papers. Ecusta-sized papers exhibited pick-
ups from 41-55% while rates for PM-sized papers ranged slightly higher from
52-64%. Typical pick-up rates for similar porosity and basis weight calcium
carbonate papers are—~65-75%.

Single~port visibility analyses of handmade cigarettes prepared from 35 g/W
binary and ternary magnesite handsheets made by Ecusta indicated SS
reductions of 60% and 65%, respectively, with good ash appearance. These
relatively non-porous, lower basis weight papers were found to be
subjectively promising, but streaking of the paper is a problem which needs
to be addressed.

Lotus: Cigarettes made with 100% blend components in both a
conventional and a low sidestream paper were tested for sidestream
visibility. There were only small differences in burn rate between the two
papers except for the MT Oriental model, which tended to burn unevenly with
the low sidestream paper. The sidestream smoke was highest for the DBC
Burley, DETA, and DBC Bright and lowest’ for IS, followed by RL-150B.

Low sidestream models made by the Export group for future Danchi Panel
testing were smoked for sidestream visibility. Results showed reductions
between 52% and 56%, with no major differences between the cigarettes made
with Lark, PMSL, or B&H blends. Also, there were no visibility differences
between the models with 0.2% Aromatek-245 and the ones without. All
sidestream papers consisted of nonporous calcium carbonate paper (V2)
perforated to 85 Coresta, that had been coated on the sizepress with 13%
monopotassium phosphate.

Sample bobbins of Ecusta’s latest magnesium hydroxide paper coated with a
solution of potassium chloride and sucrose were received for evaluation.
Cigarettes have been made and will be tested for potential transfer of
additives into the mainstream smoke.

R Tr ROST. . _

Ambrosia I POL test 0576 indicated that this prototype had a higher total
panel liking than Horizon.

A flow controller will be installed in Semi-Works the week of 6/3 for
application of sideseam adhesive containing A-150. Application tests will be
run and evaluated as well as two POL’s (0676/0591) which will target A-150 at
0.15 mg/cigt. via sideseam.

BENSON & HEDGES KS

POL 0475, B&H KS FF Menthol, MB4B filler, 2.0 tar/puff, 0.07 menthol/puff,
was shipped 5/17.

S9ZBZLLGOZ