PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPOND

  

Richmond, Virginia

CONTIMENTIAL |
Date:

WA. / pls

To: Dr. K. S. Houghton

      
  

From: J. L. Myracie

 
 

Subject:

PROJECT BOLD

BOLD 100’s cigarettes were produced with low, target, and high RTD filters to
determine the effect of filter RTD on total RTD and subjectives. A +13 mm
TRID at equal ventilation resulted in comparable products. Filter acceptance
criteria were determined using this information and submitted to Filtrona.
Four pallets of BOLD 100’s filter rods were subsequently requested for use in
a factory trial to confirm these results and to investigate variability
effects on manufacturing performance. These are scheduled to be completed by

June 7.

Results of the product placement test conducted in Northern Virginia/Maryland
indicate that BOLD is rated more favorably than Carlton/Now on several
liking-related scales. When compared to the 1990 study, the current white-
tipped BOLD was rated as smoother, less harsh and less irritating than the
previous BOLD model.

BOLD 100 POL’s 0594 and remakes of 0592 and 0593 were completed and released
for testing.

LOW SIDESTREAM PROGRAM
Superslims Single Wrap: Sidestream visibility measurements were made

for single wrap and double wrap POL test models. Compared to Marlboro Lights
100, each model gave approximately 70% reduction on the 8-port instrument.
Conversion to the single wrap is expected at the end of May.

Fillers): Plans have been formulated for the preparation of preliminary
magnesite cigarette models in different configurations to provide baseline

data for further cigarette development. The models will be made with the 7
magnesite paper (45 g/m, ternary) which gives highest SS visibility

reduction on a typical Lotus-type cigarette and the magnesite paper (55 g/m,
binary) which gives preferred subjectives.

Cigarettes were made with magnesite papers from Ecusta at higher citrate
levels than previous samples. The two 45 g/m ternary base sheet models gave
about 70% reductions in sidestream visibility compared to Marlboro Lights;
two 55 g/m binary models with slightly different base porosities and one 45
g/m binary base sheet model gave 50-60% reductions. The ash flaking on the
ternary papers was considered excessive.

L9G6GLLG0G