conducted on variables (pH, water hardness and dispersant level) that might
influence the dispersion of CA. This mill trial will cost ~$6400.

Novel Filter Development: Cigarettes were made with recessed filters

using a spiral-wound paper tube as the mouthpiece section and tested for
ventilation variability. Variability was comparable to that of a Parliament
Lights. Additional tubes will be ordered to support development of a
recessed paper core concentric filter. Samples will also be run on the dual
hopper Max tipper being developed by Engineering.

Eastman has produced menthol-in-dope CA tow for the testing of a 1.5x menthol
level in filters. Filters have been made and are currently being tested for
menthol level. If acceptable, rods will be shipped to PM for cigarette
manufacturing.

Carbon Studies: The carbon spec group has adopted new sieve screens
(14, 20, 30, 40, 70, 100 mesh and pan) for evaluating all existing and new

carbons.

Analysis of coconut carbon at the 90%+ activity level indicates that TGA can.
discriminate among carbons in that region of interest. Thus far, TGA appears
to be a viable analytical procedure for gaining intelligence on carbons used
by our competitors.

Experiments are in progress to determine the amount of water adsorbed by
carbon at various relative humidities as a function of time. These
experiments will support setting carbon moisture specifications at levels
which will minimize moisture/weight changes due to equilibration during
storage and/or manufacturing.

Alternative Plasticizers: Marlboro KS cigarette models with triacetin
and triethyl citrate (TEC) plasticizers were subjectively evaluated by the
Richmond Panel and found to be different, with the TEC model more mouth
coating and bitter. The cigarettes will be remade for another evaluation.

Lark Porous Combining Wrap: A replicate evaluation of several models

of Lark porous combining wrap (4 Ecusta models, 1 Kimberly-Clark model) was
conducted. Two new K-C models were also evaluated. The cigarettes will be

evaluated for ventilation variability and tipping defects by M/C Quality

Audit. - . Se

Machinery Development: Machine shop and commercial vendor parts for

the high-speed slitter upgrade have been received and are ready for assembly.

The experimental filter web embossing unit was tested with a rubber backup
roll but the degree of fibrillation was too low due to the roll softness. A
plastic roll was subsequently designed and assembled. This roll must now be
run-in against the steel herring-bone roll prior to testing.

wuS0G

GLE66