Se

Overholt was more fortunate than we in the operability of asymptomatic tumors.
He was able to operate 100% radically end 75% of these had no deposits in the
lymphatic glands, We must therefore, strive to discover the bronchial oercinomata
as mich as possible in the asymptomatic stage. This is theoretically possible

a series of X-ray examinations; there are, however, many practical
diffioultiea, Fluoroscopic examinations gave the following results (quoted
according to Ochsner):

Scamman found among $36,012 people examined, 43 silent bronchial carcinomata
(1 08,322,000), Boucot found among 156,920 people examined, 34 malignant
Jung processes (1 0a,25,000). Among 40,607 industrial workers, Boucot dis-
covered 0.14% bronchial carcinoma (1 04.1174). Thie indicates a considerably
higher susceptibility in industrial workers than in other profesbions.

among our patients we bad about the same mumber of mamual as intellectual
workers, Periodic x-ray examinations should therefore always be made in
order to discover silent fool in the lungs of adults, especially men, when-
ever financially feasible, because there is alwaya a danger of lung cancer,
At least, men over 40 or 45 years, should undergo a thorax fluoroscopy
every six months during a health cheok-up, a

Regarding the diagnosis of lung carcinoma in general, we ere placing mst
emphasis on tomogrephy and bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopy is only used when
photographs in layers do not give an unequivocal picture, This ia only re-
Jatively rarely the case, The evaluation of tomographic pictures requires a
great deal of practice and experience, All indications regarding findings
which may be used in diagnosis can be found in the chapter on x-ray diagnosis
of the monograph on bronchial carcinoma just published by our clinic (Salser
and cooworkers).

Bronchoscopy is used in all cases of central and many cases of peripheral
caroinoma, It is important and absolutely necessary that all doctors who wrk
in thorax-surgical station master the technique of bronchoscopy. In 62.6% of
the cases investigated, the tumor could be seen, In 46.2% a positive micro-
eoopic finding wae made. In 22.2% of the cases, characteristic indirect
dndications of the presence of a carcinoma were found,

The cytological examination of the sputum or the bronchial scrapings is only
made in cases which are questionable, The results, even according to the method
of Papaniooleeu are unreliable. They can at best strengthen or weaken the
anening in the case of positive or nogative findings, but they do not prove
anyt *

Whenever there is a suspicion of a focus of carcinoma in the lung, an exploratory
thoracotomy is indicated, X-ray examinations at short intervals such ae every
two weeke are only permissible in exceptional cirowssatences, Like other authors,
we have observed that the focal shades decrease or may remain stationary for
weeks or even months, although a carcinoma was present as shown by operation.

Diagnostic mistakes are possible even with en exploratory thoracotomy when ® = ~~

tlopsy is shown to be impossible, In 4.3% of the cases the palpation diegnosic
during the operation was wrong. For this reason an exploratory axoision should
be made whenever possible.

O90€ SsBzZ0S