aba

When projecting a further course of action, the resulte of heart and lung function
teats are of importance. Patients with coronary insufficiency in general do not
respond too well to a pneumonectomy, The funotion and capacity of the right
ventricle must be determined exactly, The veritol test or the pressure measure-
ments with the heart catheter will give the desired information, In the cases

of latent insufficiency of the right heart, a preliminary treatment of sufficient
duration is indicated, :

The vital capacity should be determined in epite of its limited value. . Beoouse,
together with the breath-holding teat, the evaluation of the enlargement of the
thorax during inspiration and the determination of the mobility of the diephregn,
this determination of the vital capacity nevertheless gives some suitable in-
dications as to whether or not an operation is indicated.

In the Clinic, Wenzl and Strahberger, together with the Assistant of the
Physiological Institute, Dr. Auerewald, have worked out the bronchial blocking
test. By blocking the main bronchus which is diseased, this part of the lung is
eliminated from the oxygen-supply work. The oxygen content of the circulating
blood is determined either according to the photo-electric method of Dramer or
with an oxymeter, With a well-functioning second lung, there is within a few
seconds after the closing of the main bronchi, a significant decrease of the
oxygen content of the blood, which laste, however, only a few seconds, If the
lung functions defectively, there 1s -- especially with emphysematic patients -.
@ longer time during which the low oxygen values are maintained, This time
varies, depending on the degree of the disfunction; however, the low velues are
maintained much longer than with a healthy lung. :

At the present time we are unable to judge to what extent any investigations using
the Knipping apparatus can give any answers as to the expected function of the
remaining lung. These investigations are in process in the Second Medical Clinic
of Prof, Fellingers, The doctors who are working on this problem are somewnet
skeptical whether the results oan be used for an indication whether or not to -
operate.

Statistics: Up to May 31, of 1952, 1,145 patients with bronchial carcinoma were
received in the clinic. 612 were declared to be inoperable as a consequence of
the clinical investigation, For 533 patients, the feasibility of an operation
was indicated, Of these, 252 carcinoma showed themselves to be inoperable, 281
could be operated radically. Expressed in percentages these figures read as
follows: 53.4% were primarily inoperable; an indication for the feasibility of
the operation was given in 46.6%, Of these, 52.7% could be radically operated.
Of ald bronchial carcinoma investigated, the proportion of radical operations was
only 24.5%, Table 4 eunmarizes the results of the operations.

Table 4
Operation because of bronchial carcinoma, 1947--to May 31, 1952
Operetion Number Died shortly Died Jeter Presently
after operation Javing._
Pneumonectonies 241 47 yb) 419
porn otoetes 40 6 12 22
oratory thoracotonies_252 482 40
TOTAL 533 27h

L90€ SEZ0S