“Te

This indicates for the pneumonectomy a post-operative mortality of 19.5%; for
pneumonectomy and lobectomy together, a post-operative mortality of 16.8%, This
portality figure also includes deaths which ocourred during the first years
while neither intratracheal narcosis nor a blood bank were avéilable. During
we mn two years, the post-operative mortality of the radical operation was

Regarding the survival of patients which had a radical operation, we find that

of 216 patients, which until the end of 1951 had been subjected to a pneumonsctony,
93, or 43% lived. There are: 49 patients, one-half to one year; 25, one to ivo
years; 12, two to three years; 4, three to four years; 2, four to five years; 1,
five and 1 fourth years. Most of the relapses and metastases appear within the
first two years after the radical operations; up to now only two patients have
died of metastases during the third year.

The results from a functional point of view are quite eatiefactory. Of the 44
patients which survived the pneumonectomy longer than one year, 24 -- this is to
say, more than half are in an excellent state of health; of these, 15 work in
their former occupation, 12 can be considered in a good state of health, and
cen go to their second-floor apartments without their needing to rest while going
up. §& have complained regarding more severe respiratory difficulties which,
however, are not always due to a mediastinal displacement,

Since, however, a deviation of the mediastinum toward the operated side is un-
desirable and may sometimes lead to serious annoyances, we have during the last
year after a pneumonectomy filled the empty space with a "polystan sponge" (Bing,
Linde, and co-workers), Thie sponge-like prosthesis, made of a plastic, inhibits
the deviation of the mediastinum, It heale without any reactions and has, up to
date, proven itself to be very satisfactory. As soon as we have more experiences
with this material, we shal] report on it in detail,

CORCTISIONS

4 few problems regarding bronchial carcinomata are discussed. The absolute in~
crease of lung cancer in different countries and especially in the population
of the City of Vienna is reviewed and proven statistically. The necessity to
have comprehensive morbidity statistics is emphasized, Regarding the etiology,
the relationship between tobacco smoking and bronchial carcinoma is discussed,
In Austria, it is impossible to affirm with certainty that there is any re-
lationship, The different view points regarding thie relationship may possibly
be explained from the difference in methods of preparing the tobacco leaves,

The investigations of English authors regarding the carcinogenic substances in
the city air are mentioned. The percentage of these substances is, however,

not high enough to be considered the sole cause of the increase in lung cancer.
If possible, the diagnesis of the bronchial oarcinoma should be made in the
asymptomatic stage. This could only be realized by systematic:and regular
x-raying of all men older than forty years. The resulte of a few reguier x-ray
examinations are reviewed. But even "silent" carcinoma are not always radically
operable, With our om patients, of a total of 41 asymptomatic cases, 9 wore
inoperable; with 8 patients distant metastases caused the first clinical symptoms,

Z30E SBzZ0S