~~

There must, therefore, ba other causes to explain in spite of these relationships,
the very heavy increase of bronchial carcinoma in Austrie, It ie-popsible that
in different countries other methods of cultivation and other tobacco manufacture
ing methods are in use, For example, Doll and Hil) guesea thet different insecti-
cides are used for spraying tobacco leaves, In other words, es every emoker
knovs, cigarettes are not alike. ‘This may possibly be a reason for the different
effects on the bronchial micous membrane.

The principle established by the American authors, namely that the possibility
of the development of a bronchial carcinoma increases with the amount of tobacco
a person is consuming does not apply for Austria, The quelity of the tobacco is
undoubtedly of deciaive significance, Quite recently English authors have re-
ported on their investigations on carcinogenic substances in city air. In experi-
ments extending over several years, in which they filtered air, Goulden and
Kennaway have found that the inhabitants of large cities inhale 0,5 mg. of arsenic
per year. This quantity correaponde to the inhaled snoke of 100 cigarettes.
During the winter the arsenic content of the air is twice as lerge ao during

the sumer. These amounts are not lerge enough to be considered as the sole
cause of bronchial carcinoma, For thie reason the authors ascribe to the arsenic
content of the city air at best, a supplementary effect,

Waller has similarly made an investigation of the benzopyrene content of city
air and he found 14.7 per'100 co. of inhaled air, He found the figures four
times ap high during fog, and there is more bensopyrene in the air in the
“winter than in the sumer. The source of benzopyrene is according to Waller
mainly coal heating in apartments, but aleo the exhaust gasses of motors, es-
pecially diese] motors. ,

The second problem which I would lke to discuss 4s that of early diagnosis.
Every caroinoma goes through a allent asymptomatic period. It would be very
important to be able to operate on the patients in this state. Unfortunately,
thia is only very rerely the case. Ochsner obsorved this in only 0.9% of his
oases. We found this in 5.4% of our patients; the latter include seven cases

in which during the post-mortem examination of patients who had died from eome
other disease, a bronchial carcinoma was found which hed given rise to no
symptoms. Table 3 enumerates our asymptomatic carcinomata and their operability:

Teble.2

41 silent bronchial carcinomatea

8 distent metastases as first symptom

8 patients refused operation

7 secondary observations in post-mortens
9 exploratory thoracotomies (not op2rav).e)
9 radical operations

If the eight patients who refused to be operated on had been operable, which
seems very probable acoording to the clinical findings -- they declared they
felt completely healthy ~~ 17 of the 41 silent carcinomata would have been
operated on radically; this ie a little leas than half. We have at times found
very we)] advanced peripheral carcinomata which had caused either no or no
observable troubles. However, among the silent carcinomata were almost as many —
central as peripheral cases.

6S0E S@Z0S