ot

fa7ave

tee

82/82

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

PolQPeS2 INI VISY SINNOM dITINd

 

 

 

   
 

   

"390 Bat gid Pad AY
oe oe _ ™
- THE NATION | Saturday, November 25, 1995
di ies va 2 igarett 7
HeIGaae the age
- nh ee la dete “af”
Health at the Office of Nod-smaking and
caanig MAL — ‘The Asia Pacific Health in Massachusetts.
‘Agsoclarion for the Control of Tobacco If enacted, jf would limit youth access
has’ “demanded that govemmen(s ja the to clgareties and smokeless tobscoo,
region bait 411 forms of totiaces promotion restriet ‘advertising and Sgaretie comps.
and tevoke the duty-free situs of clgs- nies’ sponsorship of events, ban the sale of
reties sold on alclings and ataiporis. ‘ products ja vending machines and prohibit
The association add called for govern _ indirect advertising, Connally wid.
ments to allocgte yrofiu from tobacta Jn e related meeting, all WHO Wester
tekas 10 autt-gmoking:cam pains, " Recife Re; jcnal ©: ice’ CWPRO) coun.
According tq resolutions approved at, tries and WHO South Exbt Asian Regional
the’ Ghosing ceremony af the APACT Off ices, (SEARO) agreed to implement’ a
Fourth conference, on “Tobacco or fiveryear' setion plan on fabscea, said
Health", 320 pardcipante from 30 coun «Hamann. .
tries in the regia agreed that their | Conferesea paricigiun!s signed a resofu-
governments should allocate at least three * tian supporting Thailand's attempt te
to five per cent of the money collected in introduce“ Ingredient “disclosure regula
tobacco Laxes to anti-smoking campaigns. tions, a move now awaiting Cavinet
‘The resclutiong ¢ajled for a ben on all . considerstion. .
forms of tobaces piéinotion, including APACT president Hatai_ Chitakondh
indirect cigarettes advertising. They also will submit 6 resolution to Cobines,
derhanded that” the dury-Res status Of The ministerial regulation, if approved,
Cigarettes sold on national aistines and at would zct as exemplary legislation for
rts in Asian counties be revoked, other coumecies and would represent 9
Reker Hemann, wh ‘gHaived the significant advancement in global tobacco
conferenag's one, seaiion and prepared control, accorditg 10 the rosotution.
the tesoludank said participants agreed -* Panicigants egachided that the intro-
that cigarette druids imperted into Asta duction of Western cigarette brands with
must at jeast beas the saine warding labels additives Boies special health risks for
regulted in theit countrits of origin , Asians and would lead to an increase in
‘However, this ‘warning’ auld not” the smoking rite among Asian women and
exempt the producer.fonh legal fiabiliry,'’ children unless strong legislation is en-
he added, ‘peted reqaizing full disclosure of ingeedi-
Pagticipeats also supported the mainte.” ents: .
nance of high tobacco prices (thedugh’ ” Research presented at the conference
taxation) in Avian countries 50 as to showed thal transnational tobacco firms
prevent tobacco smuggling, introduce’ hundreds of additives into their
The’ resolutions suppor, US President ‘wigaiettes, ‘game of which producs eancer-
Bi) Clinton's Initiat' ve to retogmize causing agents when bumed.
tabaedo products as drugs and take action Other additives such as ammonia,
for the protection of children's bealth. acetaldehyde. glycerin and propylene gly-
Glinton said that as a minimum, all other col increase the rate and amount @
countries in Asia should do thasame, hicoting gatecing the brain and enhance
» In August, Clinton endotidd US Foot the substance's effects on the nervous
and Drug Administeedon pfoposs}s to’ s¥srem, accarding to the resolution,
pepister nicatine aga drug, gutting tobaceg. «= Dara in Japan showed an alanning
use under its regulatory mandate for the increase in smoking emong young Japa-
first time, nese Wotnen, aad indicated they were far
* The FDA-proposed rele is intended’to more likely to smoke American brands
reduce tobesco use among children aad then theic adult counterparts,
¢ O89 ‘oy

bes02

S661

‘AON LZ

G900PES9I0€