Two of the presentations were relatively interesting. One was a rehash / expansion of a
previously presented paper that described using a remote sensing system to monitor indoor
air quality parameters, The other gave an example of using CO, as a tracer gas for measuring
ventilation. CO. fire extinguishers are discharged in a space to rapidly elevate the
concentration, then the decay is monitored. The method may be useful to validate the
airflows measured in the environmental chambers.

Committee Meetings:
TC 2.3 Gaseous Contaminants / Removal Equipment

Research Subcommittee: 1 chaired the research subcommittee meeting. Research progress
reports were made on separate projects dealing with isolating construction/renovation
contaminants in occupied buildings; identifying gaseous byproducts of microbiological
contamination; and progress on a literature search dealing with photocatalytic air cleaning
capabilities.

Program Subcommittee: At the previous meeting, I took on the responsibility for organizing
a symposium dealing with ventilation for bars, lounges, casinos and restaurants ath the
Winter Meeting in Atlanta (2001) as a follow-up to the similar seminar at this meeting. The
symposium will be postponed until the summer 2001 meeting.

Handbook Subcommittee: Revisions to the chapter dealing with odors for the ASHRAE
Fundamentals Handbook were accepted (JCW helped with he chapter revision). Ole Fanger
has been attempting to put positive wording on use of the OLF/ Decipole system in the
handbook chapter. His modifications were rejected by the committee because it has not been
fully validated for use by independent investigators. Modifications and modification
schedule for the chapter on gas phase contaminants was set. I will be participating in the
review process,

Main commitiee meeting: I’m a voting member on the full committee and attended that
meeting. Reports on subcommittees described above were submitted. In addition it turns out
that SPC 62 is looking for research projects to support modifications to the standard. A
membership ballot completed last year requires the SSPC 62 committee to not regulate
substances (such as ETS) for which exposure limits have not been set by “cognizant health
authorities.” In the latest round of comments on a proposed revision to the standard, I
pointed out that the proposed revision is not permitted by the membership ballot results.
Apparently, my comment hit a resonant chord, because they are seeking research (like that
which we have already completed at RJR) to determine “acceptable” levels of ETS from a
sensory standpoint.

Thave been asked to take over as committee chair for the full committee following the
summer meeting in Minneapolis. I have accepted the invitation. My term as committee chair
will be 2-3 years.

RJRO000001 153054518
70058 5496

 

 

G02 O9LES