the equation depending on the cfm/ft? used.) Numerous audience participants raised
questions about the validity of the model proposed by the Std. 62 committee.

At the end of the Forum, the moderator incorrectly reported the consensus of the
group as agreeing with 5 CFM (the logic being that no other rate was justified by
participants). Unfortunately, the representatives from the relevant standards seem oblivious
to the need to properly justify (rather than apparently arbitrarily choosing) appropriate
required ventilation rates.

Seminar: Ventilation for Bars, Restaurants, and Lounges (P. Nelson, chair)

This is a particularly hot issue at ASHRAE at the moment. Standard 62 (Ventilation
for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality) was recently updated to drop mention of “‘a moderate
amount of smoking” from its ventilation rate tables. No language suggesting how much
ventilation air is needed to accommodate a moderate amount of smoking has been added. As
a result, design engineers have no guidance as to how to ventilate spaced in which a moderate
amount of smoking takes place. In addition, focus on minimizing the impact of ETS on non-
smokers and employees has caused an increase in need for effective ventilation solutions to
minimize the impact of ETS on non-smoking areas. A Forum held in Seattle on this topic
was well attended.

The seminar was extremely well attended - 105 (ASHRAE estimate) — 150 (my
estimate) people crowded the auditorium. The speakers were: Dr. Peter Rojeski, NC A&T;
Dr, Charlene Bayer, Georgia Tech; Joseph Milam, EDI Engineers; and Hoy Bohanon, R.J.
Reynolds. Dr. Rojeski described different ways of obtaining particulate samples in a
bar/restaurant and made sampling suggestions that could be used to test the effectiveness of
smoke control systems. Dr. Bayer described a ventilation system that reduced smoke levels
in both smoking and non-smoking areas of a bar. Joe Milam described the engineering
solutions used to control tobacco (including cigar) smoke and airflow within an upscale steak
house in Atlanta (Following installation of the system, the wait time at the restaurant
increased), and Hoy Bohanon described successful case studies that demonstrated acceptable
air quality in bars with ventilation system improvements and extolled the audience to become
involved with the Std 62 process (which would serve to limit engineering solutions and
require ridiculous ventilation rates.

Two of the speakers expressed their distaste for ETS, but stated that the solutions
used (at airflows less than proposed by the Std. 62 committee) were effective and that they
did not mind being in the smoking areas of the venues with improved ventilation. At the TC
2.3 committee meeting, Barney Burroughs (Past President, ASHRAE) praised the seminar as
an excellent example of how a seminar should be done, and J received numerous other
unsolicited comments about the quality of the seminar and the speakers (especially Hoy)
throughout the remainder of the meeting.

Seminar: Practical Diagnostic Measurements for Indoor Air Quality Surveys

pL0Z O9LES

RJRO000001 153054518
700568 5495