[if Interoffice Memorandum

Fobacco Company
Subject: ASHRAE Annual Meeting Trip Report Date: February 25, 2000
To: Arnold Mosberg From: Paul Nelson

On February 5-9, I attended the American Society for Heating Refrigeration and Air
Conditioning (ASHRAE) winter meeting held in Dallas, Texas. While at the conference, I
moderated a seminar, attended technical sessions dealing with indoor air quality, and
attended/participated in committee meetings (TC 2.3 Gaseous Contaminants/ Removal
Equipment, TC 2.4 Particulate Contaminants/Removal Equipment, SPC 145P Laboratory
Test Method for Assessing the Performance of Gas-phase Air Cleaning Media, and GP-17P
Sampling of Airbome Particle Concentrations in Commercial and Residential Buildings). In
this report, relavent technical sessions will be described in approximate chronological order,
followed by committee activities.

Forum: Cabin Air Quality Standard: Contaminants and Levels of Concern

This and the next forum described were set up to get feedback for the proposed
standard on aircraft cabin air quality. Relatively little of interest was brought up in this
forum. Some of the discussion moved around the potential for the spread of pathogenic
organisms within the aircraft cabin, and desirability of measurement of leakage of
lubricants/hydraulic fluids into the cabin. Additional discussion centered on whether air
quality monitoring should be continuous on all flights, or measured at discrete intervals.

Forum: Cabin Air Quality Standard: Airflow Requirements

This was a contentious forum with requests for justification of recommended airflow
rates that were not provided by two standards committees represented at the Forum. The
proposed aircraft standard requires 5 CFM fresh air per occupant of the aircraft. That
requirement was tied loosely to proposed revisions of ASHRAE standard 62. The view
expressed by 80+% of the audience that expressed an opinion was that there should be a
justification for any ventilation rate that is firmly grounded in the scientific literature. That
is, there should be more than an “[unJeducated” guess as to what might work. A previous
participant in 62-1982 (?) gave the committees justification for higher ventilation rates (Cain
literature and building studies) and also questioned the current 62 committee’s justification
for changing ventilation rates. A representative from the 62 standard committee paraphrased
the justification on the equation (x cfm/occupant + y cfm/ft? occupied space) gave the same
number as the current standard 62 when 5 cfm per occupant was used in conjunction with a
proposed cfm/f? value. (He failed to realize that there are an infinite number of solutions to

€Z0Z O9LES

RJRO000001 153054518
70056 5494