PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: - Mr. T. M. Howell Date: September 5, 1989
Fron: . J. M. Dobbs of BF ; _.
Subject: . Justification for PVT System.

I recommend that a Ruska Vapor-Liquid Equilibrium System be purchased so
that we can perform, among others, the following experiments.

(1) Determination of tobacco “solubles" - CO, equilibrium.
With this apparatus we will be able to isolate solubilized tobacco
components which condense from CO, during depressurization.
Collection and analysis of the solubles in the CO, phase will yield
phase equilibrium properties between the precipitate and the
tobacco matrix.

(2) CO, - Nicotine equilibrium a ee __
This system will be used to measure the equilibrium properties of
this mixture beyond the present lower pressure data. The effect of
pressure and temperature on the activity of nicotine in CO, can be

determined from these experiments.

(3) Solubility measurements above the current 4000 psi limitation to
10,000 psi. . ae a
Presently we do not have any equipment to test Gahr’s patented
concept of using N, and CO, mixtures to selectively extract
nicotine from tobacco. This system could be used to further test
the feasibility of this concept.

The Ruska PVT system is a mercury free variable volume system with a working
pressure of 10,000 psi. The heart of the apparatus is two independently
operated variable volume cells with a capacity of 400 and 600 ml. Each cell
is equipped with an internal magnetic stirrer and a view port. Safety
considerations built into the system include a safety blow-out panel in the
rear door and a sapphire window oriented away from the operator. This
system will be located on the North wall of D-201 adjacent to the one-liter
system and will not involve major modifications to the laboratory. The
total cost of this system is $137,415. Quoted delivery is 5-6 months after
receipt of order although Ruska has said this can be reduced. Attached is a
quotation from Ruska and more detailed specification information. | -

This project was included in the 1989 Second Revised Capital Forecast for

$90,000, and it was included in the 98271993 Five-Year Plan.
I

~

cc: J. F,. Whidby

60E2OL2.502