1 gee

 

 

 

 

Ve em Re

Mr. J. A, Herberger es

Re: NORTHWOODS LOGGER CAMPAIGN - CAMPAIGN PORTFOLIO STUDY

Background And Objectives

WINSTON Full Flavor has recently switched its national advertising
from the Candid campaign to the Northwoods Logger campaign. It
was decided to run the new campaign based on positive results from
previous research on the Logger execution from the Occupational
campaign. This research suggested that individual executions from
the new campaign would be impactful and would communicate the
brand's strategy of good taste and masculine imagery. However, it
was desirable to determine the degree to which the new campaign
might approach the Marlboro campaign in potential for the total
campaign to communicate not only good taste, but more importantly

a desirable smoker imagery.

 

Therefore, the objectives of this study are as follows:

1. Determine potential campaign communication in terms of smoker
imagery and product benefits.

2. Assess the perception of the Northwoods Logger personality image.
This would be accomplished by:

a. Determining whether the personality imagery is highly defined
/single minded.

b. Determining what is the definition of the personality image.

c. Assessing how the personality image of the Northwoods Logger
compares to the Marlboro Cowboy and the WINSTON Candid

smoker.

Summary Of Findings

In terms of campaign communication, it appears that the Major gain
accomplished by the new campaign relative to Candid is communication
of a more fully dimensionalized, rugged, masculine smoker imagery.
The smoker imagery communicated by the new campaign is much richer
than that communicated by Candid and tends to be comparable to that
communicated by the Marlboro campaign. Given the greater involve-
ment of the Northwoods Logger campaign respondents in smoker imagery,
the taste communication for the new campaign is somewhat lower than
that generated by Candid. However, taste communication for the
Northwoods Logger campaign.is superior to that achieved by the

Marlboro campaign. :

6S6%6 EEros

: 4
| September 11, 1979

eesti eet ee nang gy tet ee gee +

teen meet meme ge

Fiennes wanareare