Mr. Herberger
Page 2
September 11, 1979

In terms of personality image, the Northwoods Logger campaign more
strongly defines the intended WINSTON smoker image. He is seen as
an active, independent, practical personality type. The degree

and quality of personality definition received by the Northwoods
Logger is again comparable to the Marlboro Cowboy. The Candid
campaign, however, is diffuse in personality development. Not only,
as noted above, does the Logger campaign communicate masculine
smoker imagery, but a highly macho smokér imagery appears to be the
major dimension of personality that separates both the Logger and
Marlboro personality imagery from that of Candid.

Conclusions

Results of this study would appear to suggest that since’ the new
campaign communicates a strongly defined masculine smoker imagery,
in line with that communicated by the Marlboro campaign, and out-
performs the Marlboro campaign in communicating taste, it has the
potential to improve on WINSTON's image deficiencies relative to
Marlboro while maintaining WINSTON's taste heritage.

Methodology

This study was conducted in July, 1979, in three geographically
dispersed cities. This study was conducted among three separate
samples of 150 male full flavor non-menthol smokers age 18-35.

Each cell was split into 50 WINSTON smokers, 50 Marlboro smokers,
and 50 other full flavor non-menthol smokers. Each cell of smokers
was shown a portfolio of ads from one of the three campaigns tested.

* Northwoods Logger

* Candid

* Marlboro

Respondents were allowed to review each campaign portfolio for as
long as they wanted, after which they were asked questions on open-
end advertising communication, personality description of the men

in the ads via the bipolar personality audit questionnaire, and
personality description via an adjective checklist.

Detailed Findings
1. Campaign Communication

Three questions were utilized to determine campaign communication
on a open-end basis. Respondents were first asked what they felt

096» €ET0G

was the main idea of the campaign (other than to sell the product).

Fn ane ae neat aeenmnereenitnttenentnetyntuttntgire: AIOE

ereterennperreereneer et again tints NNR oat