Mr. Herberger
Page 7
September 11, 1979

Personality Image

This segment of the study is somewhat experimental, since it
is based on the utilization of a questioning technique with
which RJR MRD has little experience. However, as noted below,
the findings of this portion of the study seem to have a high
degree to face validity. ,

The bipolar personality audit has been utilized to assess the
degree to which respondents can agree on a basic personality
type for the WINSTON/Marlboro smoker depicted in the test
campaigns. This questioning sequence is designed to classify
people into one of eight basic personality types. The per-
sonality typology is based on the work of Dr. J. Thomas, a
management psychologist, whose work has been used to identify
personality strengths of people to put the right person in

the right job. His assumptions are that people can be grouped
based on the strengths of their personalities in the following
three dimensions.

* Thinking Versus Doing

The poles of this dimension are based on thinking and planning
before you act versus acting first and thinking about the
consequencies later.

* Dependent Versus Independent

The poles of this dimension are based on acting and feeling
comfortable in groups taking into account the thoughts and

opinions of others versus being more likely to feel comfortable

acting on one's own thoughts and convictions.
* Practical Versus Idealistic

The poles of this dimension are based on looking at the way
things are and identifying problems (practical) versus
looking at the way things could be and identifying solutions
(idealistic).

Although people in general perform at both ends of each
dimension, people do tend toward one pole of each dimension.
The classification of people into the eight personality types
is based on combinations of perceived polar tendencies. The
perceptions of polar tendencies are determined via a semantic
differential questionning sequence developed by Dr. Thomas.

It is our judgement that it is desirable for consumers to agree
on the perception a single personality typology for the WINSTON
smoker depicted in the advertising. This agreement would
reflect a single-minded, well defined, rather than a diffuse
smoker image. It is assumed that communicating a single
personality image is as important to image advertising as
communication of a single product benefit is to product oriented

S$96% FEftosg

ore ee ee cae eee sete een at dee retin eee