Mr.

Herberger

Page ll
September 11, 1979

In his management consultation, Dr. Thomas has been able

to observe the performance of people to whom he has previously
assigned a specific personality typology. Thus, he has been

able to empirically flesh out his description of each person-
ality typology. The following characteristics tended to i
describe the type VII personality:

He is a self-started, resourceful, self-confident,
conservative, ambitious, and dynamic personality. He
tends to be resourceful, practical, and independent.

He is also quite enthusiastic. He is a hard driving
impetuous individual who tends to like change and
freedom and power. He is a type of individual who, while
he may not be a highly educated, will lift himself up by
his own boot straps. He takes the initiative, is self-
assertive, and follows his own convictions.

It is judgementally felt that this personality description
reflects the desired WINSTON smoker imagery and is the "me I
want to be" to WINSTON King's target. While the personality
typology is able to classify people into specific stable
personality types, it is necessary and very useful to further
dimensionalize the model imagery depicted in the advertising :
based on more specific descriptors. That is, a type VII i
personality could be male or female, young or old, etc. This
further personality description was accomplished by means of i
a 31 question adjective checklist. A factor analysis was
performed on the 31 adjectives which resulted in four basic
underlying factors consisting of adjectives with common
meaning. The following examines the degree to which each
adjective in each of the four basic factors describes the
smoker imagery projected by each of the test campaigns.

f

The first factor uncovered, the "macho man" factor, contains
elements of masculinity that are judgementally key to the
success of the Northwoods Logger campaign. The table below
indicates the degree to which adjectives within this factor
apply to each of the campaigns and the differences between
campaigns. Ail of the "Macho Man" adjectives strongly
describe the personality of the Northwoods Logger and the
Marlboro Cowboy. The only adjective for which the Marlboro
Cowboy outperforms the Northwoods Logger campaign is
"adventurous." While many of the "macho man" adjectives
also strongly describe the Candid People, the following
adjectives apply to Logger and Cowboy at a significantly
higher level than Candid People.