significant advantage over that which might be obtained with each component
individually. A product may often be optimized by judicious combining of
materials with different properties.

Polymer coatings, fiber modification (low level derivatization of
cellulose fibers), steam explosion of fibers, and sol-gel coating are all
different means by which cellulose fibers may be chemically and physically
modified to manipulate the resulting properties of the paper to achieve a
variety of results. Fibers other than flax will also be examined. Any of
the papers produced for the sidestream program could and should be evaluated
for effectiveness in any of the other areas which might be appropriate.

In the area of altered mass burn rate, many of the papers prepared for
the sidestream reduction program may be very suitable for evaluation.
Coated fibers such as those prepared by A. Kallianos via sol-gel technology
may produce a paper with reduced mass burn rate. Additionally, papers
containing ceramic fibers may be prepared at the University of Washington‘.
Such papers may have value in controlling, heat loss by the cigarette rod.
Papers with various levels of graphite fibers might also be prepared.
Papers containing graphite or ceramic fibers are good candidates for a
bilayer sheet construction, with the ceramic or graphite fibers in the inner
wrap. Magnesium carbonate papers have been shown to produce a long static
burn time in the sidestream reduction program. Consequently, a paper
containing a magnesium carbonate filler and/or coating might also be of use
in controlling the mass burn rate. Magnesium carbonate is used as a fire
retardant in some industries. Transmission electron: microscopy has: shown
that magnesium carbonate tends to coat the cellulose fibers more than.
calcium carbonate*, possibly due to the greater solubility of MgCO,, .

Paper treatment or modification can also be used to address. immediate
problems such as spotting. The: process used to prepare ART tobacco
apparently mobilizes lipids. and leaves deposits on the surface of the
tobacco shreds. When the deposits are large enough and come into gontact
with the paper, the waxes migrate into the paper andi saturate it, f@®rming
spots. Spotting is also a severe problem with DIET tobacco. The mechanism
by which spots are formed is probably similar to paper chromatography.
"Greaseproof" coatings are. routinely applied to various kinds of paper to
provide resistance to grease and oils. Ethylcellulose, polyvinyl alcohol,
and polyvinyl acetate paper coatings have successfully prevented spotting,
probably because these coatings produced a "“greaseproof" cigarette paper.
Polyvinyl alcohol is. used for that. purpose. Lacquers are also used for that
purpose. Ethylcellulose iis commonly used in lacquers, as are cellulose
esters. The cellulose flibers are coated and pores in the paper are occluded
by the polymer film thus reducing the absorbancy of the paper. Other
cellulose derivatives besides ethylcellulose may also work to prevent
spotting®. As. long as they are film-formers and coat the cellulose fibers,
thereby reducing absorbancy, they should work. A. number of cellulose
derivatives have been coated on paper for the sidestream reduction program”;
samples of these papers should also be evaluated for their resistance to
spotting. Additionally, the magnesium carbonate. paper shouldi be evaluated
because of the high oil absorbancy of that material, compared to calcium
carbonate.

‘For new, innovative products, highly innovative papers ane required for
highly specialized needs. Ceramic fibers in the wrapper can be useful in

-2-

ob9Pt9Ise202