these applications in terms of imparting insulating character to the papers.

‘Again, many of the papers evaluated for one program might also find
application in other areas. Coated fibers might also reduce the propensity
to burn in these applications. Sol-gel technology may certainly provide
some application in terms. of coating fibers. MgCO,, which coats fibers,
might also be of interest in some of these applications. MgCO, coating of
the papers (not just incorporation into them) might also Be desirable.
Also, materials which might be unsuitable for a burning article might find
some use in a non-traditional cigarette. Materials such as alumina or

‘aluminum hydroxide compounds might be useful here. Very novel materials
could also be considered. Again, the bilayer construction or lamination of
the wrapper might offer some advantages, putting ceramic fibers in one
layer, for example. Coating of the paper with insulating or flame retardant
materials might also be of value, as: previously mentioned.

With regard to paper breakage or high-speed papers, alternate fibers
might be of interest. Non-flax fibers or flax with a higher content of bast
cells might be off value in producing a stronger, more flexible paper. The
requizxements for our current. papers might also be better defined if both
tensile and elongation were measured at different relative humidities.
Other specific strength properties might also be identified if a systematic
study were conducted using a cigarettte maker modelling device. Then we
might. offer better specifications to. our suppliers to minimize costly paper

breaks.

Overall, paper properties designed to solve one problem may also
address other needs, as tthhere is some overlap in the requirements for
several areas. Resources are limited for everyone, but we can amplify our
effectiveness by evaluating the same papers for several different purposes.
The attributes which are effective fior one purpose may frequently be
desirable’ in solving another problem. The papermaking facilities in the new
handsheet lab are excellent and many of the ideas just described have
already been tested. Additional papers will also be made for evaluation in
the sidestream reduction program. Other interested groups will be*welcome
to evaluate those papers for their needs as well. There should be
coordination between groups and some systematic exchange of ideas so that
our facilities are optimally utilized. Perhaps. regular meetings involving
representatives of interested groups might be appropriate. This would
improve the overall effort.

There are other concepts: which need to be tested beyond those mentioned

thus far. The list of possible variations in paper materials: and

construction is almost endless. We are limited only by the resources to get
the job done. We have good physical facilities in the handsheet laboratory
and at the University of Maine, although the logistics involved in commuting
to Maine are somewhat cumbersome. The response of the various: research
groups to these intitial efforts in papermaking has been one of considerable
interest. To achieve the goals which are presently set will be a full-time
job for the people already involved. To try additional things which may be
nequested by members of other groups interested in paper can be done, but
only by slowing progress in the primary areas, unless more human resources
are committed. Our ability to address all needs is necessarily limited. To
expand our ability to address those needs would require expansion of the

scope of the papermaking project.

EV3Praszo2