PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: R.N. Ferguson, H. Alonso, P.N. Gauvin Date: November 28, 1988

From:S.D. Baldwin, R.M. Rogers, W.A. Geiszler de

 

Subject: Philip Morris USA’s Needs in Paper Technology. J ney

A number of important issues facing Philip Morris can be addressed in
large part by means of paper technology. Sidestream smoke reduction,
altered mass burn rate, spotting (both in ART and non-ART products), new
products and paper breakage during manufacturing all reflect current needs
which can be met via modification of the wrapper material itself. Future
needs might include the requirement for an exceptionally strong and flexible
paper, as cigarette-maker speeds advance to 10,000 units per minute, and
pexzhaps ultimately to 12,000 units per minute. Aliso, innovative new
products: have requirements for very unusual papers.

In the area of sidestream smoke reduction, for example, modification of

' the cigarette wrapper has produced very good results. Low porosity papers

and those with very fine particle size inorganic fillers have been
successfully used as a: means of reducing sidestream smoke. R&D is currently
evaluating materials. with diffierent chemical and physical properties. from
those used for roptine pape king. Extremely high surface area calcium
carbonate (72 m'/g vs. 7m /g for normal paper and 22 m‘/g for “standard"
sidestream-reduction paper) has been obtained and is being tested. Initial
results are encounaging. Materials with different chemistries, such as
magnesium carbonate, have been tested with some initial sucéess. A variety
of mineral paper fillers will also be evaluated, along with several novel
synthetic inorganic. compounds to be prepared by A. Kallianos and others
within and outside of R&D. Physical and chemical characteriza@ion of
papermaking materials will also be performed, so that we can determine why
we observe what we do and to gain insight into the mechanisms involived'’,?.

Aliternate paper constructions are aliso being developed in the
sidestream program in order to obtain the optimum product with respect to

- both performance and subjective characteristics. Double-wrapping,

laminating of sheets and preparing a layered or gradient sheet all are
techniques. which can give us: greater flexibility in addressing a number of

problems. Different materials. can be placed in two sheets or in different
strata of the same sheet. B. Goodman has. recently prepared double wrapped
cigarettes for the reduction of sidestream smoke*. The outer wrap contained

the generally unpalatable Mg(OH). paper and the inner wrap contained a low
porosity, low calcium carbonate sheet. Results have been quite favorable in

~both sidestream smoke reduction and subjective acceptability. This example

illustrates how the dual construction of the wrapper can ofifer a

  

Test taszoz