GSA Hearing
Page 2

According to TI reports, three (as yet. unnamed) GSA representatives will
testify, along with a Dr. Hoyt (University of PA) who reportedly will speak on
the smoking issue. We areas of this: writing attempting to identify Dr. Hoyt.

Neither the Ranking Minority. staff nor the “friendly” Democrat staff have
seen the actual text. of the legislation that Traficant has reportedly introduced
on smoking. As I understand staffs interpretation, the Traficant legislation
will ban smoking in all federal buildings: and/or in any vehicles owned or
leased by the federal government, including the U.S. House and Senate and
the U.S. Courts. Anyone wishing to smoke in federal buildings will have. to
go outside and the GSA, the Administrative Office of the Courts, the House
Office Building Commission, the Senate Committee on Rules. and the
Architect of the Capitol are to issue regulations to: institute and enforce the

ban.

Rep. Traficant indicated to Minority: staff that he would be holding hearings
on his legislation “soon” and that “all parties would' be able to. be heard and all

witnesses accommodated.”

Action

¢ In conjunction with TI, I am making certain that the Ranking Minority
Member and the friendly Democrat staff/Members are armed with questions
and answers to keep the discussion on Tuesday on track. The briefing
materials; will focus on the GSA, their authority, their activities, and
responsibilities. The Members: will also be provided general! information on
ventilation standards: and Indoor Air Quality considerations in general.

TI briefed my same.contacts yesterday on ETS. We will provide ETS Q&As:
only to focus debate. Although we do not want this to be an ETS hearing, per
se, our friends should be prepared to discuss. the issue.

¢ We are talking with Mike Forcee and Susan Stuntz as to any labor
concerns among the Federal Employees Union which may be expressed to
Rep. Traficant. As: of this writing, TI is planning to meet with the union in
preparation for a IAQ briefing with Traficant.

S69P9T9202