To:

From:

Subject:

1341 G STREET, N.W., SUITE 900, WASHINGTON, DC 20005

Kathleen M. Linehan Date: 2/19/93:

Robert Y. Maples.

Traficant. Hearing on General Services Administration Policy on Smoking
in Federal Buildings

Per your request, I have. become involved in preparations for next Tuesday’s
oversight hearing before the Public Buildings.and Grounds Subcommittee
(Public Works Full Committee), chaired by Rep. Jim Traficant (D-OH). After
learning of the hearing late yesterday afternoon, I have canvassed the
“friendly” Member staffs of the Subcommittee and the Tobacco Institute. as. to:
the current situation. My findings, initial actions, and' future considerations

are set forth below.

Background

Apparently, Chairman Traficant indicated his intention to conduct a
hearing on the GSA’s regulations regarding smoking in federal buildings. at
an organizational meeting of the Subcommittee several weeks ago. This item
was one of fifteen items discussed and no particular emphasis or priority
was given to the tobacco issue at that time.

Republican sources believe that Traficant has chosen to hold this hearing
now because the federal building smoking policy has become a “high profile”
issue due to: the actions of Rep. Durbin (D-IL). Holding the hearing now
would also be in accord with the House Democratic leadership request that
House Committee and Subcommittee Chairmen “get busy” to show action.
Moreover, these sources see some reason to believe that there may be a
Traficant/Durbin “conspiracy” at. work. Apparently, Traficant.has been
“spending a lot of time” in the Appropriations Committee on specific District
projects; which could indicate some type of a trade off between Traficant and
Durbin (who chairs the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee).

The Hearing x
The plans are for Tuesday to be an Oversight hearing on the GSA. There argo

three items slated to be addressed: &
¢ The GSA smoking policy in federal buildings. &

* The GSA plans for child care facilities: in all federal buildings. oO

¢ The GSA use of alternative fuels in all federally leased or owned La}
“J

automobiles.