PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: -Baxrbro Goodman: Date: July 7, 11989

n
e

i i i i 4 i ‘ ifs mF CIM
From: -Gia. Kim Yi (V. Baliga Project Leader): ete Gee

Subject: .Structural and Elemental Characterization of Five Experimental
Cigarettes.

Five experimental cigarettes were submitted flor examination by scanning
electron microscopy (SEM) andi energy dispersive X-ray spectrometry (EDS).
The cigarettes: were labelled as follows (Appendix I)::

Virginia Superslims

ABH 35% Mg (OH),

X8D9 ABO CaCO, with liner
ABN 35% Mg(OH), with Borax
ABP 15% Mg(OH), with liner

The ash, char-line, unburned paper and liner of the samples were
processed for analysis. Examinations and. comparisons: were: made: on the
structural features and on the elemental composition of: the above: samples.

Virginia Superslims

The gross morphology of the ash. appeared to be uniform in composition
and texture (Fig. 1). It contained dense aggregates. of equant~-shaped

particles: which measured: 0.4mm - ljim in diameter. The surface of the
particles, as: shown: under high. magnification, were: eiither smooth or rough

(Fig. 2). The particles with a rough surface may be further broken down
into finer unit. particles. The unburned paper contained. high amounts of Ca-
containing particles (Figs. 3, 4).. These partiiclles appeared. to have

metamorphosed dramatically through the burn: since similar structures: were
not. visible im the ash. Similar results were obtained. from the study done
on the K succinate (acetate) containing, papers by Gia Kim Yi". The char-
line on both sides of the paper contained! bubbles and crusty structures: as
shown. in Figs.. 5 and 6. These structures were abundant at the: char-line,
and were similar to ones found in the K-containing papers: discussed! by Gila
Kim Yi'.. There may be a heat-sensitive: coating material present whiich
expands and bubbles as heat causes the: release of gases. The: crusty
structures may form as the bubbles cool.

The liner contained oblong-shaped particles: which. measured 0.4m. -
0.8um in length (Fig. 7):. These Ca-containing particles appeared to be
different from the equant-shaped Ca particles: found in. the paper (Fig. 4).
The liner contained a low number of particles: compared to the paper, and had
a smooth appearing surface. Major elements: detected by EDS were Ca and K
from the ash and! paper (Fig. 8), and Ca from the liner.

SPO”

CS621T8p