X8D9: ABO: CaCO, Cigarette with Liner

The: morphology of the unburned paper andi the ash appeared to be very
similar to Virginia Superslims. Figures 9:'- 12 show its resemblance to
Virginia Superslims where the ash contained two types of equant-shaped
particles, and the paper contained high numbers of Ca-containing particles.
However, the bubbles and the crusty stuuctures were visible only on the
inner side (toward tobacco shreds) of the paper at the char-line (Fig. 13).
The liner appeared. to be non-distinct from that of Virginia Superslims (Fig.
14). Calcium and. trace amounts off K were detected. by EDS from. the ash and
Paper, and Ca was detected from the liner (Fig.. 15).

ABH 35% Mg(OH),

In comparison to the previously examined samples, the ash: firom Mgi(OH),
paper retained its original structure (Figs. 16, 17), and had a substantial
amount of "fiber" remnants. (Fig. 18). The ash and unburned paper. consisted
of two types of particle aggregates, a Mg-containing, aggregate and a. Ca-
containing aggregate (Figs. 19, 20). The former type was more apparent, and.
its size and shape varied greatly. The tightly packed! unit. particles of the
Mg-containing structures: were equant-shaped and measured! less. than 0.1m.
The inner side of the ash and! char-line contained numerous crusty structures
and exhibited bubbling effects (Figs. 21, 22). The sample: contained Mg, K,
and Ca: as the major elements. (Fig.. 23).

ABN 35% Mg(OH):, With Borax

The unburned paper had a granular surface and! contained a higher amount
of particles compared! to: the: previously examined Mg(OH); papers (Fig. 25).
The papez ash, which maintained its integrity, also appeared to be granular
(Fig. 24). Differences. between. the two Mg(OH), samples where one of them
contained Borax were evident at higher magnification (Figs. 26, 27). A.
greater portion of the ash from this sample consisted! of tightly fused
clumps: of particles where the shape of the individual. particle could not be
resolved with the SEM that. was used for this study (Fig. 26). From the ash,
“fiber” remnants: appeared! as. a. llattice of interconnecting particles, and. the
Mg-containing, aggregates. were: not as apparent. The: char-line. from the inner
side of the paper, which resembled the unburned paper, also contained
bubbles and crusty structures (Figs... 28, 29). The: major elements detected
by EDS were Mg, K,. and! Ca. (Fiig.. 30).

ABP 15%: Mgi(OH):, With Liner

In comparison to the previously studied Mg(OH), samples, examination of

the gross. morphology of this sample showed that. the ash was more friable,
but. the unburned paper appeared.to be similar (Figs. 31 - 34). The ash
consisted of partiicles that were largely variablle in size and shape. Some
of the: particles were tightly fused whereas: others revealed unit particles:
Figure: 35 shows the unit particles of; the Ca-containing particles, oblong; to
equant in shape, similar to the ones: found’ in. other Mg(OH), samples. Also,
large globular patches which measured! up: to 8 Hm. along the long axis: (Fig.
33) were found in the ash. These patches contained Mg, and Ca. There: were
no visible bubbles nor crusty. structures on either side of the char-line.
Very small to no K signals: were obtained by EDS from the unburned paper and
the ash (Fig. 36).

-2-

£t8be02r

C86