Nucleic Acid Technologies Poundation

July 1, 1996 et nfal #6

George A. Hashim

Associate Research Director

The Council for Tobacco Research - USA, Inc.
900 Third Avenue Sept 14
New York, NY 10022

 

Dear Dr. Hashim:

 

Albany: New York, This will be the fifteenth i in the ¢ series of race Cente, oad Nt SHE
Nucleic Acid Technologies Foundation, in conjunction with several area academic and scientific
institutions.

As you can see from the enclosed flyer for this year's meeting, the topic is a very timely one.
There has been a burst of interest in recent years on mitochondrial involvement in normal cell
function and in disease. Mitochondrial defects are being implicated in a host of neurological,
muscular, and metabolic disorders (including diabetes). In addition, considerable interest is
starting to focus on mitochondria as targets for a wide range of drugs, including benzodiazepines,
immunosuppressants, channel blockers, and nucleoside analogs. Because of the renewed interest in
this "old" organelle, the meeting is attracting a distinguished group of front-line researchers to
present their latest work.

The reputation and visibility of the Albany Conference series have grown with each meeting over
the past 11 years. However, as with all ventures of this type, we rely heavily on outside sponsors
to help underwrite some of the expenses. Each year we have been fortunate to receive significant
support from private organizations such as yours, who have a vested interest in promoting
biomedical research.

The Albany Conferences are unique in many ways, including their intimate nature and inter-
disciplinary focus. The audiences have been savvy and appreciative of the chance to exchange
ideas in the environment we provide. We make every effort to let them know which companies
have helped to make each meeting possible. ,

This is a request that you consider helping us make the 1996 Albany Conference on Frontiers of
Mitochondrial Research a success with your sponsorship. We are seeking contributions in the
range of $500 to $5,000. Higher level contributions carry perks such as single-room
accommodations for scientific representatives (registration fee waived) and full-page sponsor
acknowledgements in the meeting program (design of your choosing but no product advertising).
Certainly, we would also be pleased to receive smaller contributions, all of which will be
recognized at the meeting and in the final program.

70015348