2085764955

“new problem emerging in FL. The usual suspects PTI, Int'l Duty Free, South
Eastern, etc. are now coming to DBPR to get "permission" to sell and bring
into

the State a "new type" of cigarette. They are buying cigarettes in the

usual

popular brands (esp. PM brands) from VA and NC wholesalers and then bringing
them to FL by the truck load. These are all of our gray marketers
accompanied

by their lawyer (that paragon of legal ethics, Barry Boren) finding a new
cottage industry to circumvent normal distribution chains! The cigarettes
are

supposedly a lot cheaper to buy up there. When they are bringing them to
FL,

they are supposedly putting FL tax stamps on them (allegedly -- of course
DBPR

also seized a counterfeit tax stamp machine last week... ). [s this

legal

under the Jenkins Act? I am familiar with the name of the act and know it
concerns interstate trafficking in cigarettes, but I know nothing else about
that law. IF they pay the FL tax, is this legal? Our agent advises me that
this

is not a violation of FL law (-- although I doubt they have checked with
agency

counsel to confirm this) Iam sure FL wholesalers would have a litter of
kittens over this practice, the question is, is it illegal? (or do we just

need

to make it that way). It seems to set up the potential for blackmarket

trade if

they have the capacity for stamping (especially counterfeit stamping).

Haye

you heard of this practice occuring in other states? Please let me know
your

thoughts on this and if it is a legal problem, we will of course do anything
and

everything we can to work with you to deal with this. Thanks! K

 

"The information in this email, and in any attachments,

may contain confidential information and is intended

solely for the attention and use of the named addressee(s).

it must not be disclosed to any person without authorization.
Ifyou are not the intended recipient, or a person responsible for
delivering it to the intended recipient, you are not authorized

to, and must not, disclose, copy, distribute, or retain this
message or any part of it."

 

 

"The information in this email, and in any attachments,