PHILIP MORRIS USA INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY _ 10017-5592

TO: Field Sales Force DATE: December 21, 1998

FROM: Theresa LaSalle/Trade Marketing
SUBJECT: Parliament Full Flavor Introduction and Lights Kings Box Reintroduction

The five topics covered in this document are designed to assist you in planning, executing, and
administering the Parliament Full Flavor introduction and Lights Kings Box reintroduction. They are:

* Product Ordering (Wholesale)
* Initial Allowance

* Rapid Distribution Allowance
* Consignment Funds

* Gratis Payments

Product Ordering (Wholesale): .

Richmond Customer Service will begin to accept orders on March 22, 1999 for product shipments
beginning April 5, 1999. Orders may be accepted from Philip Morris personnel or wholesale
accounts. Philip Morris personnel who place account orders need to provide the Richmond Customer
Service representative with the account’s Personal Identification Number. Philip Morris personnel may
place orders by calling Richmond Customer Service at 1-888-WE BUY PM. If you have any questions
concerning this process, please contact Richmond Customer Service at 1-888-WE BUY PM.

Initial Allowance (see Attachment A for details):

The Initial allowance is $6.00 per 12M case for both Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box
paid via a credit memo each week to wholesale accounts. The credit is based on shipments of
Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box product to wholesale during the initial period of April 5
to May 14, 1999. Wholesale accounts will be paid this allowance on all deliveries up to their Initial
allocation quantity. Initial allocations can be found on the SI Support-File Server-120/11 in a folder
entitled Initial Alloc Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box.

To help you track the Initial allocation credits on a weekly basis, a report will be placed on the SI
Support-File Server-120/11 in a folder entitled Parl Full/Lts Box Intro credits during the Initial
period. The report will include the following information.

* Account Name and Customer Number

* Total Initial Allocation

* Product Purchased (cumulative by week)
* Total Initial Allowance Paid To Date

* Total Remaining Initial Allocation

6S6968080z