Rapid Distribution Allowance (see Attachment B for details):

A Rapid Distribution Allowance (RDA) of $16.00 per 12M case will be paid to wholesalers for all
Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box product invoiced by wholesalers for shipments to retailers
from April 5 to May 14, 1999. This allowance is designed to expedite product distribution at retail.
The RDA payments should be made through FSI as follows:

PROMOTION CODE
Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box 937A

Consignment Funds (see Attachment C for details):

All TSMs, except TSMs in Metro territories, should use existing consignment funds that were issued —

for the Marlboro Ultra Light Menthol and Basic Menthol Ultra Light Box 100s introduction. If you do
not currently have a consignment fund, please follow procedures on Attachment C to obtain one.
Amounts greater than $1000 are available with SSD approval. Requests for additional funds should be
outlined (e.g., number of accounts, sub-jobber/cash & carry issues, etc.) on the Consignment Request
Form (Attachment C-1) and District Managers should forward it to Tomasz Dunski, Field Payments
Coordinator, via E-Mail by April 9, 1999.

Gratis Payments (see Attachment D for details):

Please use the Retail Gratis Agreement form to determine each account’s gratis payment level. Maximum
Parliament gratis is 12 cartons/120 packs (3 cartons/30 packs for each packing). The retailer must agree
to and maintain the performance criteria agreed to on the Gratis Agreement form for the entire
introductory period.

Gratis payments should be paid upon the second visit to the store, after verifying performance, using one
of two methods: :

1. SFA/FSI (preferred method)
2. Van Stock

In SFA/FSI, you may reimburse retailers at the retailer’s wholesale price using the following promotion
code:

Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box 960A

Only one invoice will be allowed in SFA/FSI. If van stock is used to pay gratis, use expense category
“Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box” to reimburse your consignment at the retailer’s
wholesale price.

These guidelines should enable the Field Sales Force to:
* Meet distribution and sales objectives
* Accurately complete administrative responsibilities; and

¢ Reimburse wholesalers and retailers in a timely manner

If you have any questions, please contact your immediate supervisor.

0969680802