6) Winston 84 CPB, Came! Fil and Lts 83 CPB, and Camel Reg for Curacao will
transition here from Puerto Rico to match current Domestic packaging used on Tax
Free products sold in Latin America. Will require revenue closures from Curacao.
Volumes are extremely small so orders will be batched. Orders and closures have
arrived for immediate production. Each closure is valued at $1.56 US so it will require
peeling closures off rejected packs and all damaged closures returned for credit.

7) We will be receiving closures from the Ukraine for production the first of Oct. These
will be revenue closures that will have to wrap around the side of the pack on CPB. We
also have received word that we have 4 new Russia customers bringing our total to 18,
all with different closures. Three new brandstyles will also be introduced; Winston KS,
Camel Fil KS, and Camel Fil 100.

8) Production for 7 brands for Aruba will be transferring from Puerto Rico to W-S. All 7
will require a revenue closure, standard size at 19mm X 41mm, placed in the normal
position on the back of the GP packs. Costs of the closures will require peeling off the
rejected packs for credit return.

Quality issues:

1) We have received information from Japan that complaints on mixed materials have
been received from 3 separate cities located in two of the southern islands. The product
is Came! Mild KS product, closure, carton, and case but having Camel Filter KS
wrappers. Based on information received, we ran an order of Camel Filter KS Japan
just prior to the Camel Mild order and apparently did not make a clean changeover. Due
to the sensitivity of reclaiming product off the Market, we have elected to wait and see if
additional complaints surface. At this point, other than the initial complaints, no others
have been reported. Still no additional complaints have been received to date.

2) Fadhoul Pakhazis, Marketing Manager of Lebanon, while here in W-S this week,
had 2 quality complaints:

a) A packaging design issue on Winston Select 84 CPB APET. The Winston
Select logo on the back of the pack and on the APET do not match so that when the
APET tear tape is torn off, the remaining APET and the pack graphics do not line up.
Barry Self’s group will correct ASAP.

b) His wife purchased a carton of Vantage 84 CPB APET at retail and most of
the cigarettes in all 10 packs had filters falling off. Samples are being sent to us for
analysis. No complaints have been received from consumers at this point, other than
this incident. Samples still have not arrived.

ATTACHMENT Il
9-26-96

8129 LEeéesg

RJRO00000151505149WINSTON REPOSITIONING

70036 7173