ATTACHMENT 1

9-30-96
TI BRAND ACTIVITY

1) Japan will be transitioning the current Salem Slims CPB to LSS/EVG technology as
a result of the success of Pianissimo. Prototype development and consumer testing
should be complete by the first of May. Japan Marketing has made the decision to go
with a 6 mg product. Transition test analyticals were good, however TI R&D has
reduced the dilution by 2 points to get the tars closer to 6 mg. Two vendor print issues
have surfaced: a) the two vertical rhodamine red stripes bordering the vertical
blue/green columns are varying due to trapping of the inks over the background
blue/green. b) the icons on each end flap of the carton signifying the LSS technology
were lighter than tolerances. Both these issues have been resolved with the vendor.
Production began 9-13 on 5B01 and 9-19 on 5B02. Total launch volume will be 120
MM. Approximately 100 MM have been completed to date. We have also received
back up orders (non-inserts) for 80 MM to be produced within the next 3 weeks.

2) The Thailand Market has requested the month/year code dates to be printed on the
side panel! of the pack poly for all products (5 brand styles). Efforts are underway to test
a prototype machine from Markem (New Hampshire). Delivery within 2-3 weeks. Our
Hong Kong and Malaysia factories currently use this same equipment. The test
prototype has been installed at the Pilot Plant, and test were conducted successfully
Tuesday, 9-3-96. Awaiting further directions from TI on targeted start up date. Still
awaiting directions from the Market.

3) Geneva has requested that we pursue on-line printing of the production dates for the
Saudi/Gulf products on all box products. The year is required for all but Saudi, which
requires both the month and year. Print will be on the bottom of the pack. Dated
closures will be eliminated. This will make products from all factories consistent for
these markets. We are currently pursuing making this a cylinder item for Gulf Other and
overprint for Saudi.

4) Production for Camel 70 Iceland will transition from Puerto Rico to W-S with late
July start up. No orders received at this time. Material run up in Puerto Rico. A PD test
has been conducted. Decision was made to sell remaining inventory of Puerto Rico
product before production begins here-late Sept/first of Oct at the earliest.

5) Geneva Marketing has decided to convert the current Camel Lt 84 CPB for FSU to
the European Camel “Blue” packaging. Materials are due by the end of Sept. Will
require ordering new Camel bent logo foil embossing units. Blend will change to Pan
Euro. Will also require a different colored gold foil (being developed by Packaging). All
materials are due for a Sept 23 transition test. Initial order is for 100 MM with 1.2 billion
annual volume. Will be both FSU stamped product as well as un-stamped voluntary
health warning product. An order for 888 10M cases with Russia closures will be run as
a transition test on 9-24. All materials are due 9-20. Embossing rollers are here and
have been checked. More orders will follow to total the 100 MM total initial order
quantity.

The Initial order Is complete and orders for 1776 additional cases have been
scheduled for week after next (different Russia Customer).

ZLL9 L€6eS

RJRO000001515051494

70036 7172