Roth, J.A.
#2903
Page 2.

Three other C.V.s are included but the roles of these investigators
are not specified. One of them, Dr. Mien-Chie Hung came to the Department
of Tumor Biology at M.D. Anderson from the Whitehead Institute in 1986.
Dr. Hung is experienced in growth factor studies and molecular biological
methods and has two multi-authored papers in press for which neither Dr.
Hung nor Dr. Roth is the principal.

Dr. E. C. Murphy, Jr., is chief of the Virology Section at M.D.
Anderson. He has not heretofore published with Dr. Roth. His work has
been on H-ras expression vis-a-vis tumor metastatic behavior and on
cell-transformation by H-ras and N-ras in cell culture.

Michael Tainsky is an assistant biochemistry professor in the
Department of Tumor Biology at M.D. Anderson who has experience in
molecular cloning and in studies of H-ras variants.

Neither of these latter two are listed as coauthors in Dr. Roth's
preprint on TGF-alpha in lung cancer nor in any other paper.

I am left at a loss to understand how all this work will be done.
That Dr. Roth would need sustained collaboration from these colleagues
seems clear to me. But there are no letters of commitment and the grant
as written would not appear to support any workers other than Dr. Fang and
a Research Assistant Grade II (whose qualifications are not described).

The budget at $80,500 is modest considering all the work to be done.
Evaluation

The research plan presented is theoretically doubtful but in technical
description is a satisfactory one. The topic is important. Much of
what is needed in clinical material, cell-cultures, and cloned DNA
sequences is at hand. M.D. Anderson's Tumor Biology laboratories are
a good context for the work.

Yet the requisite staffing is not assured by the proposal we have
received. If we fund this project, it would have to be on the basis
that the movie will be better than the book so far as supportive
cooperation arrangements are concerned.

Recommendation: Site Visit to determine practical feasibility.
Alternative is approval at low to medium priority.

CTR-CONFIDENTIAL SUBJECT TO P.O. INUS v. PM ET AL. 99CV2496 (SCIENTIFIC PEER-REVIEW MATERIAL)