PHILIP

TO:
FROM:

SUBJECT:

BRI 7 1 30 IF EICE Ce NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592
William I. Campbell DATE: September 2, 1992
David E.R. Dangoor
BEN &H SP. Ne RA

Looking back at the media stir created by the Wall Street Journal article, Thursday, August
13, 1992, I think our Corporate Affairs Department did an excellent job with “damage
control" (please see enclosed summary of events from Karen Daragan and summary of Jim
Oates’ conversation with Smart Elliott of the New York Times).

The issue has died down and to the best of our knowledge, very little awareness was
created associating the B&H Special Kings brand name with the story and the reporting got
fairer with time.

However, the Wall Street Journal article was very unfortunate and "unfair"...

Ironically, although we committed only $9,200 for two issues of Genre (total of two ads)
out of a total media budget of well over $35 mio (!), we had long discussions up the line
including myself and Jack Nelson concerning the wisdom of approving Leo Burnett's
recommendation to make this media buy. But, we decided it was the right thing to do.

Two unforeseen circumstances played a role: The day before the Wall Street Journal
called, we had just granted an exclusive interview and story on the B&H Special Kings
launch to Stuart Elliott of the New York Times (he held back the Story as a result of the
WSJ article and only ran it last week). Hence, we did not give the story to the WSJ, but
only responded to their questions.

Secondly, either the actual publication or someone else, drew the WSJ attention to our
media buy. It is not the first time that the WSJ marketing section prides themselves with
“tabloid reporting sensationalism". Why they chose this angle for the story is strange, as it
was well know that Absolut Vodka and Miller had advertised in this publication for some
time.

It continues to be challenging to take measured risks when trying to create impact for the
advertising of our cigarettes.

fra . a“

ce: K. Daragan
V. Han 7
S. LeVan
M.A. Miles
E. Merlo
R.W. Murray
J. Nelson

69PL88Sl02%