ry

4

ae

’

3 a ’
- By ROBERTPEAR ' |
Fa ~ Specie) bs The New York Times

‘Judge Rules Against F. TC,
On Tobacco Advertisemen

1
Avg. pale

an

 

‘ea, OF !

WASHINGTON, Aug. ¢— An admin-} and could mot be ssid about important

+ ‘etrative law judge ruled today that a
complaint filed against the R. J. Reyn-
olds Tobacco Company by the Federal

Commission should be dis.

missed because the First Amendment
fully protected an “editorial advertise-|
ment" in which the company discussed
the health risks of smoking.

The commission charged in June

bile issues by corporations.”
wa the commission said !
they had not decided whether to &p-

Commission officials said the com-
piaint against Reynolds was the first
case in more than a decade in which the

i ‘s advertising claims about the
“~that the advertisement was “false or th risks or benefits of amoking.
” because it understated the} - Camel, More and Vantage
” “yiaks of But the judge, Mont- :
gomery K. Hyun, sxid the commission| , Reynolds, ® subsidiary of RER Ne
plaint. legal power to the Camel, More and Vantage cigarettes,

a among other brands. com
ed everest by the Fisce| said in Sune that its advertisement was
‘Amendment and was not commercial] "fair and accurate.”

which enjoys “limited protec-| But Judge Hyun said that because
ther bat is sublet ty Goverament the advertisement wes besically

ence between the two types of ment require, the contents to be abso-

and it affirmed the Amendment] Htely. provably accurate .

Fighis of businesses. Ushed last year, discussed the results
Ad Expressed a Point of View | of » study financed by the National In-

; judge said the company’s mes-
rs uate Reps car | ta veo Fendi ar OpEd
yers reps vusr, :
anid pe decision wes "a significant ‘ype piece, not e cigarette ad.”
vindi-ation of the First Amendment tthew L. Myers, director of the
ted all corporations to speak. and of Coalition on or Health,
Siuzens to lis en. and pass jodgment vate organization that asked the corm-
“4 decision to the contrary,” Mr.| 8gainst Reynolds, said
Abrams said, “would have put at riak think the decision

betes
aA

 

 

Court decisions,

“The term ‘commercial speech’ does
not admit of a precise or neat defini-
tion,” be said. “The Céurt bas gen-
erally employed a ‘common sense’ dis-
tinction and ruled that an expression
which does no more than propose a
commercial transaction or promote a
Product js commercial speech.“

By contrast, he said, the Court's rul-

has no element of 4 commercial or goes
well a business
transaction or discusses matters of

a Hyun rej "s are
gument that the 1914 law crea the
requ or sevaration of

Saeco

com

ercised by the F.T.C. rests beer
ex 7.
with = branch, which the

assuredly nota part.” .’

This of & has bécome
popular as a way of challenging reguia-

is ‘years, but