samples have been analyzed for Dr. Bernasek. The results obtained agreed
well with the theoretical values and the precision was excellent.

Work during this report period in which a micro balance was used for
weighing the samples has conclusively demonstrated that precision can be
increased significantly over the precision obtainable using a semimicro
balance. This is particularly true with compounds high in nitrogen.

A very brief summary of the evaluation of the Nitrogen Analyzer to
date is as follows: The instrument has proven satisfactory and reliable
for the analysis of solid compounds ranging in nitrogen content from
2 to 48 percent. It is thought that most organically bound nitrogen can
be successfully determined with the Analyzer.

III. Acetoxy Acid-Sclareolide Studies

The desired products of sclareol oxidation are acetoxy acid and
sclareolide. It seemed that additional analytical procedures for reso~
lution of these two compounds would be beneficial to the Chemical Division,
particularly if saponification conditions for maximum conversion of the
acetoxy acid to sclareolide could be established.

Acetoxy acid titrates quantitatively in nonaqueous solutions with
tetrabutyl ammonium hydroxide, whereas, sclareolide is not acidic in non-
aqueous media. This behavior provides a rapid method for the determination
of acetoxy acid in the presence of sclareolide, providing other acidic
materials are not present.

Additional studies showed that the hydrolysis rate for sclareolide
was much more rapid than that of acetoxy acid. Hence, work was under-
taken to establish conditions whereby sclareolide would be completely
hydrolyzed and the acetoxy acid not hydrolyzed at all. In these tests
the compounds were dissolved in either acetone or tertiary butyl alcohol
and hydrolysis attempted with either 0.1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide,

0.1 N methanolic tetrabutylammonium hydroxide or 0.1 N ethanolic potassium
hydroxide. Hydrolysis of sclareolide proceeded more rapidly in tertiary
butyl alcohol than in acetone. The rate was very slow for both compounds
with the methanolic Bu,NOH and too rapid for acetoxy acid with 0.1 N
ethanolic potassium hydroxide. The most promising conditions were to
dissolve the compounds in tertiary butyl alcohol and saponify with 0.1 N
aqueous sodium hydroxide. Table III indicates the results obtained when
100 mg. of sclareolide was dissolved in 25 ml. of tertiary butyl alcohol
and reacted with 10 ml. of 0.1 N sodium hydroxide at 25° C, There was no
saponification of acetoxy acid under these conditions in a 3 hour period.

LtSh 64206