perchlorate to prevent precipitate formation. This suppresses the
inflection somewhat, but still yields a satisfactory titration Curve.

. Difficulty is still being experienced with the determination of
magnesium perchlorate by this technique.

Potassium perchlorate is best determined if ea 5-7 mg. sample is
dissolved in 0.5 ml. of hot water and titrated with 0.02 N titrant
after the addition of pyridine.

b._ Determination of Water_in Alcohols

This project is being suspended until further notice.
Il. Determination of Sclareol :

A report on the development of the new sclareol method has been com-
pleted and is being edited by the library. A final draft should be forth-
coming in the very near future.

ILI. Determination of DDVP

This project also is being suspended until there is a marked decrease
in service requests in the gas chromatography section.

IV. Flame Photometric Determination of Calcium in Tobacco

Studies were continued along two lines: (1) investigation of factors
influencing the accuracy of the method and (2) determination of calcium by
classical procedures.

Values for both potassium and calcium are affected by the presence of
hydrochloric acid. Hence, the exact amount of hydrochloric acid used in
the samples must also be present in the standards.

It was observed also that the presence of potassium (K*) enhances the
spectral emission of calcium. The enhancement occurs significantly at low
levels of potassium but levels off to some extent at higher concentrations
of potassium. The rate of change in the region normally found in the
calcium determination (30 to 60 ppm of Kt) is not great and the use of
around 48 ppm of potassium in the calcium standard should eliminate most
of the enhancement-induced error.

The determination of calcium in the Standard Sample of burley stems
by wet ashing of the tobacco, followed by an oxalate precipitation and a
permanganate titration yielded the following sets of values:

I. 2.81, 2.87, 2.83, 2.79; Average, 2.825% Cat*
II. 2.84, 2.83, 2082, 2.83; Average, 2.830% Ca**

 

fish 6£70S