1? tN tens mmee

ToT ea 2

 

 

EVANSVILLE, IND:

_... COURIER
D, 63,527 - S. 102,526
EVANSVILLE METROPOLITAN AREA

Jun i487 |

 

Something Smoking Here

 

Operating under what if calls
its “fairness” policy, the Federal
Communications Commission has
ordered TV and radio stations to
provide time for rebuttal to cigaret
commercials.

The FCC didn’t go so far as to
require “equal time” as in political
eampaigns: But it sald the broad-
casters must give “substantial” al-
fowances to people who say
cigarets are bad for you.

The stations, the FCC ruled,
have a “duty” to inform their
audiences of the “other slide of
his controversial issue.”

This is the first time the FCC
ever has. insisted on rebuttals to
commercials, and this ruling is re-
stricted to cigaret advertising. But

wwe can imagine a goojynany other

 

NL

argue about — and the FOC may
have let itself into a can of singing
worms,

When, for example, are the
Indians on all these westerns going
to get a fair shake? How about
something to offset that dizzy
blond who keeps screeching ut us
to join a “rebellion?” Shouldn't
there be something like “equal
time” for the otherwise healthy
fellow who gets sick watching
what those pills do to that
stomach? There are gents who
don’t like deodorants, even if the

‘ girls would come running, as the

commercials say. Any “fairness”
for them?

_ if we are going to be 60 all-
fired fair, why not be “fair” with
everybody?

DeeLE0SO0T

 

INDIANAPOLIS, IND,

. STAI
D. 221,489 R s.

- 24
INDIANAPOLIS METROPOLI p24

TAN AREA

 

JUN 7 19

; Big Brother At Work

What will our lives be like when the government
regulates them completely? Take a look at the Federal
Communications Commission's ruling on answers to
cigarette advertising on radio and télevision, and use

your imagination.

 

 

The commission has ordered that cigarette advertis-
ing on the air must be answered with antismoking prop-

aganda broadcast by thé same stations.

If the station can find sponsors to pay for the time,
they're lucky. If they can’t, the time must be provided

free.

The order was issued, the commission said, under
its “fairness doctrine.” This is a long-standing require-
ment that radio and television stations offer fair cover-
age of conflicting points of view on controversial issues.

Hitherto the application of the fairness doctrine has
only requiréd comparable tréatment of the two or more
sides of an issué. And éxcépt in (he casé of political
campaigns, which come under a special law, it has never

been applied to paid commercials at all.

So this is the first instance in which stations have
been ordered to provide free time for answers to paid
advertisements, This is an audacious ruling, to say

the least. '

The controversy in this case is about the effects of
smoking on health. The FCC took note of the fact that
govérnméntal and privaté reséarch organizations have
asserted that “normal use” of cigarettes may be in-
jurious to health. People who see and hear cigarette
commercials on the air should also be told about these
assertions, said the FCC. So it’s up to the stations to

see that it’s done.

Where do we go from here? There are plenty of
other controversies about things which are advertised,
involving health, safety and well-being: Now that the
FCC has entered the field of judging these matters, the

possibilities are endless.

Note well also the FCC fs legislating—it is overrul-
ing Congress. Congress enacted a law requiring that
a warning of the possible injury to health be printed on
cigarette packages: It specifically said in that law
that inclusion of thé warning in cigarette advertising
shall not be required. The FCC, in requiring thé warning
in answer to advertising, is certainly countermanding

the intent of Congress.

This order is a horrible example of tha, unbridled

use of government regulatory power. ‘

 

{

 

gt