To represent that the tobacco industry had more information about
adverse health effects of smoking than the top public health officers in the
USS. is demonstrably untrue. In reality, the industry had no incentives to
conduct lengthy and expensive research of its own, when even top
government experts doubted that such research could be well spent
money and time.

It is also important to recall that the now-dominant culture of deep risk
aversion started taking hold in this country only around 1970, when the
first steps were taken that led to the establishment of the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Consumer Protection Agency, and allied
organizations in and out of government.

Even the concept of addiction was not perceived by the public opinion of
15 years ago as it is today. At that time and for centuries before, addiction
has implied some action that one would be compelled to do over and over
again. It included anything from being addicted to good deeds, to
chocolate, to cigarettes, to coffee, to food, to gambling, and eventually to
hard drugs of abuse. Over the last 15 years, the misuse of the word in
public discourse has led to a situation where addiction refers exclusively
to the enslaving use of hard drugs.

Earlier it was not so, and most people — the tobacco industry included -
would use addiction within its historical and far more generic meaning — a
meaning that had no evil connotations when applied to tobacco smoking.
In fact, the landmark 1964 Surgeon General's report on smoking took great
care in specifying that smoking was a mild habit that could not compare to
hard drug addictions, and one that ordinary people could easily control.

If the tobacco industry was slow in reacting to reports of adverse effects of
smoking, it was not tardier than official public health agencies. It started
producing cigarettes that would yield less smoke or filtered smoke, and
voluntarily accepted a cigarette grading system endorsed by the Federal
Trade Commission. Shortly after, the industry joined the National Cancer
Institute in an effort to develop less hazardous cigarettes.

SEP 17 '99 15:00 1 301 229 4278 PAGE. 004

190242524
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE