190242523
PRODUCED FROM

 

 

BéW WEB SITE

INTRODUCTORY REMARKS

The tobacco industry has its own responsibilities, but it was not
responsible for generating the tobacco culture. Rather it was and is a
product of that culture, For the U.S. that is a 500 year old culture that
accepted and cherished tobacco for its evident values: economic,
pleasurable, esthetic.

It is not an exaggeration to say that tobacco was the economic backbone of
the United States during the first three centuries of this country’s history.
It is also undeniable that tobacco users have obtained pleasure and coping
value from their habit for thousands of years, if one includes its early use
by native Americans.

During the last century, the tobacco industry simply built on this tradition
and culture without any obscure intention, and only guided by the desire
of profits at the service of millions of demanding consumers. In doing so,
the industry promoted its products as any other manufacturer would,
utilizing the language, the imagery, and the idols of the tobacco culture. It
did so within the momentary context of ever shifting semantics of
language and of social values and mores, as they inevitably entrained and
affected the industry itself.

The central question is whether the tobacco industry should have been
more responsive to the health concerns that became associated with -
smoking. In this regard it is important to be aware that historically the
reports on tobacco and health have been ambivalent, with adverse claims
being just as numerous and as credible as beneficial claims. Yet, both
kinds of claim were backed by subjective opinions rather than by objective
scientific evidence: an ambiguity that persisted well into the first five
decades of this century.

As late as 1957, both the Surgeon General and the Director of the National
Cancer Institute testified in Congress they did not see compelling scientific
justification to warn the public about claims that tobacco smoking was
harmful to health.

SEP 17 °99 14:59 1 301 229 4278 PAGE. 003