One may ask: why less hazardous cigarettes and not outlawing cigarettes
altogether, in the face of all adverse reports? The reasons were and are
complex.

In the mid ‘60s some 50% of voters were smokers. The proportion was
probably even greater among legislators and public officials.

Through the ‘50s and ‘60s, the memory of the tragedy and futility of the
alcohol prohibition campaign was still fresh in all minds, and abolition of
tobacco and cigarettes was not even considered as an option. Cigarettes
were there to stay.

The tobacco economy was a leading contributor to GDP and to exports.
Tobacco supplied and easy revenue of taxes to federal and local
governments alike. Historically, the total tax revenue has always been
much greater than the combined after-tax profits of the entire tobacco
industry —a reality that even in the ‘50s and ‘60s made assorted
governments by far the major profiting partners in the tobacco trade.

At that time, Congress and government were much less inclined to be
paternalistic and interventionist, compared to what is accepted today.
Unlike today, the dominant philosophy was still that individuals were
responsible to be informed and for their own actions — a philosophy that
was a corollary of the ages-old principle that citizens have a responsibility
to be informed, as exemplified by the norm that ignorance of the law is no
excuse.

At the same time two facts were clear. First, that the risk associated with
cigarette smoking decreased as the amount of smoke inhaled decreased.
Second, that nicotine appeared essential to smokers but also virtually
harmless at the doses inhaled. Both conclusions had been documented
and endorsed officially by the 1964 Surgeon General’s report on smoking.

Thus, in the mid ‘60s was apparent that cigarettes could be made less
hazardous. The tobacco industry had no expertise in health-related
research, either at the laboratory or the epidemiologic level, and in 1968 it
quickly responded when invited by the National Cancer Institute to join in

4

SEP 17 '99 15:00 1 301 229 4278 PAGE. 005

190242525
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE