a program with the ultimate goal of developing less hazardous cigarettes.
The joint venture was obviously promising because the industry alone had
the know-how for modifying cigarettes, while the National Cancer
Institute had the expertise to test and evaluate those modifications in an
official capacity.

With engineering and technical assistance, and material contributions
from the tobacco industry, the Smoking and Health Program of the
National Cancer Institute mounted a massive development and testing
effort that lasted over ten years. It was coming close to identifying the
characteristics that could make cigarettes less hazardous, when it was
suddenly closed and abandoned in 1980.

The reason was a sudden policy reversal at the U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, the head agency of the National Cancer Institute.
The new policy sought the abolition of cigarettes and tobacco by the year
2000, and had no tolerance for the concept of less hazardous cigarettes.

What followed that policy reversal is an open story. It is now the year
2000, there are still some 50 million smokers in America and some 2 billion
worldwide, and in America the industry and the smokers have been
penalized by official settlements at the tune of several Sbillion a year.
Again, cigarettes are here to stay, and mostly for the same reasons that
were compelling in the ‘60s.

For all intents and purposes, more than at any other time the cigarette
industry now serves as a conduit of revenue funds to assorted
governments and representatives of the tort bar. In effect, they have
become the silent but controlling partners of the tobacco industry.

At this point the tobacco industry faces new problems -- problems that
B&W has decided to air during a series of public forums, both to make the
country aware of those problems and to seek guidance in finding
responsible solution. The forums will expand on the following points.

¢ The feasibility of less hazardous cigarettes and the related
responsibilities that the industry and its controlling partners may have.

5

SEP 17 '99 15:01 1 301 229 4278 PAGE. 006

190242526
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE