THE LANCE S. 49 12,1979

No matter what ober variables were in the repression
equarion—in other words n was £01 explained away by
GNP. cpareties. or diet.

(51 The dietary variables showed Hess clearcut assoc:
ations wah mortality in the presence of other variables
than they did when considered singly. Tora) fat. salu:
raied fat. and monounsaturated fat were postively as-
sociated with 14.0. mortalny when in the presence of
oiher variables but on the whole thes¢ assocratsons were
weak. Polyunsaturated fat tended to be sirungly nega-
twely related to 1.4.0. mortalty. Keys’ predicuon
seemed to carry most of the information presen singly
or collectively an the fats. The size of ns assocration with
1LH.D. mortalty depended heavily on the nature of other
varvables in the regression equation.

Excluding France from the analysis did not substan-
taally alter the results.

‘Table it shows some regression analyses using 3 par-
titular ser of mmdependent vanables. These varsables
were chosen for ther mirmsic interest (doctors and nur-
ses) of for their smportance. The figures in the table are
standardised regression effects whith have been
explamed in detail by St. Leger and Sweetnam.’ In
essence they represent the proportional change of death-
tate to a one standard devianion increase in the indepen-
dent variable from is mean value. Any two standardised
repression effects in the table may be compared, af
desired. Most of them are subiect to considerable ran-
dom variation so gresier weight should be placed on pat-
tern and consistency than on magmitude alone.

DISCUSSION

The results have to be smterpreted in the light of the
general vahdity and known pitfalls of ths type of study
and 11s method of analysis This has been discussed else-
where’ but here we must stress that all our findings, de-
spe the apparent complexity of the dnalvas, are SLALIS-
tical associations only and are not themselves sufficrent
evidence to »mpute causality to any of the observed rela-
onships. Nevertheless these associations deserve
further comment and should be viewed within the wer
context of other findings.

We found neg! mble association beiween health ser-
vice mdices—e.g.. doctor and nurse density—ehd mor-
talny from heart-disease or the companson moriabnics
from bronchis and road-trafhe accidents. This 15 in
accord with our previous findings regarding overall age-
speqhe morabty

As before! increasing per capa wealth appears to
have a protecuve mfuence noi ceplained by any of the
other variables. The assocsation berween cigarette con:
sumpuon end bronchitys 1s in accord with reasonable
expectation and lends support to the validity of our data.
The assocation between cigarette consumpnion and
hypertensive disease and 1.H D 15 again roughly 9m agree-
ment with expectation.

The ran correlations between 9.4.p. death-rate and
dietary fats accord with those presented by Stamler et
al* This 1s to be expected since our data are simular to
thors. Bur we find a hive surprosong their statement
thar “lt as vated ot the present nme to conclude
thai— at a hagh level of probability —a cause-and-effect
relanonship has been demonstrated betusen dittary
lipid uspecahcally, saturated fat and cholesteral and

1019

widespread premature coronary heart disease even
though substantial direct proof fram definiive, large-
scale long term mass field trsals 1s ste? to be obtained.”

Since ebve wee wraten, largesscale field inals have
been completed, The clofibrate trial’ certainty showed a
reduction of serum-cholesicrol and non-fatal myocardial
infarcts sn the treated group bus there was no difference
IN 1... mortabty and there was an increase mm total
mortality sn tha) group. Furthermore the evidence from
a substantial number of studses® on the effect of diet, or
changes in diet, on the development of 1.4.0. 15 confused
and contradictory.

‘The strong negate parial association in our data
beween 1.4.0. deoth-rate and polyunsaturated fat
miake 1s enconsistent with current opinion because, on
the sbsence of a strong positive partial assncration
between 1.4.D. death-rate and saturated fais, this finding
is more consistent with the view that polyunsaturated fais
are themsclves “benehcial” rather than merely apparently
beneficial as would be the case were they merely replacing
“harmful” saturated fats in the diet. We adrmt that this
argument, being based as it 15 on association and partial
association, must be ireates with caution.

By far the most interesting result to emerge from our
analysis was the strong, specific associanion bemmeen
t.n.p deaths and alcohol consumpuen. more parlicu-
Jarly with wane. This association was not explained aw ay
by by fat consumption, Keys’ prediction, or any of the
other variable: we examined. Correlation studies are
bound from ume 10 me to throw up curious but funda
menially insogmficant associations bur there 1s reasun to
beheve this one worthy of attention. Klatsby e1 al.'" an
the Karser-Permanente study founo a statistically sig-
nihcant negate association between alcoho! consump-
tron and subsequent myocardial infarction in 464
panents. Hennekens et al.," after allowing for covari-
ates, found a negative association berween hght alcohol
intake and fatal myocardial infarcuon im a large group
of cases and controls. Yano et al found a negative as
sociation beaween moderate alcoho! consumpuon and
L.H.D. on. a sample of Japanese men. There are other stu-
dies'®* whose results broadly agree with these and, in
addnion, there 15 evadence’®-"® of a derect effect of alco
hol on blood-Npids and other blood components. There
1s alsa. some evidence’ which conflicts with the
hypothesss that alcohol has a protccive effect against
t.H.d. but nevertheless thes hypothesis os at presen more
strongly supported than refuted in the Inerature as 8
whole

Our hndongs suggest that the apparent relapenshop
beaween 1H D. death-zates and alcohol consumplion mas
be complerely eaplamed by wine consumpnon bur we
must observe that the experience of Yano et al sug-
gests that beer a.0x be equatls important

Ii wine has a provecuve effect aganse 18.0 death
then this ts. on view of our results. more hkel to be due
tw constituents other than alcohal Wanes as. ce han ate
matic compounds and other trace compuntias which
pre them ther disunct character and a may be tw these
that we should look foe the proiccuve cficcy All thes #5,
of course. speculation and wine drinking ay sand te be
related to a relaxed way of Inning but we Armbe believe
that our esidence. and that from other studics. ssties
an sxpenmental approach to this gueton An omtral
step would be to examine the effect of alcvhol and. mn