1020

parncular wine, on blood-hpids, platelet agercfanion,
and on such other blood consutuenis as may plausibly
be involved in the pathogenesis of atheroma. The cesults
of this may then justify a randomised controled trial of
the preventive or therapeutic effects of moderatt wine
consumption on 1.H.p. Such 8 study would, however,
pose severe ethical and pracucal difhiculuts.

Mf wine 1s ever found to contain a Consutuent protec:
Live against 2.H.D. then we consider 18 almost 3 sacrilege
that this consitvent should be solaicd. The medicine ss
already in a highly palatable form (as every connonsseur
will confirm). We can only regret that we are as yet
unable 10 give mformation to our ariends about the rela-
uve advantages of red, white or rosé wine.

Requests for reprints should be addressed to A S$Siu
REFERERC®S

1 Gneneane. AL, Sudager, AS. Moore, BOD Bpiceminl commen Hib,
16°b. 32, 200

ee

Points of View

ne

IN SEARCH OF THE HOLY GRAIL

Peter Barritt
Voor Dasirrct Hospital, Yeoral, Somerset

‘THE publicauon of Sor George Pickering’s Quest for
Excellence. in Medial Educanon jogged few
memories because 1 met him on his fact-finding tour
when | was a student representative at Bormingham.
The memories are none too fond, | must confess: Hur-
ried lunches. interminable meetings, polite sriences, 1m-
polite silences, fechngs of transparency . . . all part of
the regular life of a student representative On ihe cur-
neulum :eview body of the day. My favourite senior
physician used to say that if they changed the curtscu-
lum much more 1 would end up the same as when he
tramned. ,

The very existence of the student representaives was
a thorn in the flesh of the distinguished and crudite pro-
fessors of the faculty who usually had a fairly shrewd
idea of what was good for students. In wue democratic
aivle we aired our views and they were probably as un-
representanive of student interests as those of our elders
and betiers Attempts at introducing democracy were
made but they failed because, op the whole, the silent
masornty didn't care a stuff about the curriculum as long
as thes passed through it uneventfully.

Plans to break down estabhshed barners beiween pre-
chmeal and climcal subjects are dooined to fanure.
There ate Iwo main seasons for this Firstly, these two
sechans of the medical school have ne wea what each
teaches. Chimesans have an snberent smerest im main:
tuning the status quo, since thes can then hold forth on
how hitle suidents seem te Iron these days. and so on.
Seconds, because funding and the pohucal prosuge of
a depariment depend on the amount of teaching tome.

’

THE LANCET, MAY 12, 1979

 

2 Sebager AS Cactrant AL. Moore, P Lome 1078.01 135)

 Aunenque M.Damaga. Pt derwfle. kJ See oes Pers 19763,

a Vrgdudieahap vane Coedesseliggs St Dnganen, % hinden Sesbrtiangs 19°*

$ Sapries, J. Sooner... Shededic. Bb ce Ichemy Hear Vitae edned
by JM de Haas. CO Hember, end A Satlien. p 84, Lenten. 16°0

6 Ker A Andrevon, J 7 Grande. b Leases. 9997.0. 959

2 Su Leper. A S.Seccipm. FM tas J Epidemvol unabe pres

8 Giver MF. Heads, J A. Morr, ) Nv, Cooper, } Be Hrony VOT’. 80,
1009

9 Glueck. C J, Matson, F, Berman, BL Neo Eng! J tee \O"b, 298,
wn

10 Kisuds, AL. Predmen. G D. Surpriaud. AB Ase sacra Med . 1974,
01.706

1) Mennebem, CH. Robner, B. Colt. D Am J Bpsdemint 1978. 107, 1%

12 Yeru,K Rhoads G G Ragen. A Wee Ene? J Med 1977, 397, 408

13 Rerecshra, J & Repon of “Meatib Comequrnie of Oninting Praia
Band of beserape and whregutat mortielite” prepered tor abe Mane Ine
tute, Cotiturma Herkeity, 1978

14 Steron. WOH, Nef ROK. Muerunen, OS, Jud. WH Am } Epracrond
1976. 164,603

19 Meshes. 88, Reeglund. L, Bompet, Lk Arse med se08d 19°*, 702, 1

Vo Costeth. Wo 2, Gordon, 1, Hroritand, 81 D. Kegan, A Veni, J 7,
Home. © Huilty.$ B date), © J Lenser 1977.0, 193

1° Poot O. Lepper. MB Whelan, BH, Doperna, GD . MacMillen. AY
Meheon, HM .Verb. Bl Cercatonnn, 1963, 28,20

1R Wathermen, 1. Wedit H, TbdIN,G Coz wtareon, 1973. 43, 950

A

the professor protects his interests by keeping his subject
an island unto wself. Seting up a schoo! from scratch,
is, naturally, & different matier. Razing the exssting
building and its incumbents was a solution occasionally
discussed by the student committee, usually towards the
end of the evening when beer was to the fore and seals
somewhere behind.

Many of the problems of medical education stem from
the enormous sncrease in the number of students being
trained. Mledicane, } beheve, should be an apprenucestyp
and 11 seems sad that students can pass through a medi-
cal schoo! without getting 10 know a few chmcans well.
Groups of ten students lead to arufical relanonsinps
—the slothful undetected and the loud supreme.

The faculy review body's new curncu'um, I
remember, would have contained jitle pardiate:cs and
less obstetrics. The argument ran that these subsects
were essentialiy postgraduate and would be learnt
during vocational traming. Only 3 teaching hospiial
could produce 2 theory like that, for anyone who has
worked as a house officer in these specralies on pers
pheral hospitals would immedhately recognise the fallacy
of the argument. .is an S.H.O. there vou are immed:
ately thrown into complex situations, sometimes with
only a consultant above you. There 1s no wme to start
learning basics then... loo much work and not enough
staff. In acadenne cenites, where house ofhcers are plore
hed medical students wath keen registrars breathing
down thor necks. there 5 no such problem More impor.
tani 1s that mam profound medical advances have sill
not flered through to some penpheral hospitals In
obsteincs, for example, the achive management of
labour, feral monsionng. dhabere contro} yn prepnancs,
resuscrtanion of the newborn, and the cure of neonates
mav be mre pupe-dreams in smaller units If one uidn't
leatn about these at the centre of excellence, one mmgnt
never hear of them at all

The medical training of the average student consists
of his medical educanon and subsequent experience in
non-teaching hospitals The smpact of the vocatonalls
trained has yet to be felt an genesol practic, but n will