1018

vansables were selected for cxaminahon by regression analysis
No emphasss has been placed on formal significance testing. but
In the table presenting 2 summery of the regression analyses
ne find it helpful to andicete where the ¢ value for inclusion
of an “explanatory” variable rn the equavion exceeds 2.

RESULTS

‘fable no displays the coefhcients of corrclanion
beeween the death-rates and a selection of our “explana-
tory" variables. In anterprening ths table we have con-
sidered nor only the magnitude of the cocfheients but
also ther consistency of sgn and Consistency between
the sexes.

Doctor densiy has 3 negative correlanon with thz
deaths from heart-disease and bronchitis. Nurse density
shows a less consistent paltern, there being particularly
large positive correlations with deaths from 1.#.D.
G.NP. per capita is quite strongly negatively correlated
with all the death-sates except road accidents. Popula-
tron density is mostly negatively correlated with the
death-rates and this correlanon is fairly large with 1.8.0.
deaths. Cigarette consumption is posiuvely associated
with all causes of death.

Total calorie intake is strongly positively associated
with 1.4.D. and bronchius deaths. Total fat intake is
quite strongly posiuvely associated with 1.4.0. mortality
and negatively associated with cerebrovascular disease
deaths sn males. Both sawwrated fats and snonounsatu-
rated fats are strongly posinvely associated with 1.4.D.
mortahty and not strongly posimvely associated clse-
where. Polyunsaturated fats are moderately to weakly
negatively associated with deaths other than road acci-
dents. Keys’ prediction of average serum-cholesterol 1s
very strongly positively associated with 1.H.D. deaths and
shows Intle association elsewhere.

Not included in the table are total far, saturated fat,
monounsaturated fat and polyunsaturated fat intake
expressed as an energy percentage of total calorie intake.
Their patiern of association with 2.4.b. deaths is aimost
identical to that of these fats expressed in absolute
terms.

Alcohol consumption is strongly negatavely associated
with 1.H.D. deaths, moderately negatively with bron-
chins, and moderately positively with road-accwent
deaths. The large correlation with 1.4.0. deaths promp-
ted us to break alcoho! con umpuon into its three main
components—wines, beers, and spirits. As can be seen
from table i, wine appears to account for the entire

TABLE 1I—REGRESSION ANALS STS

i RT FS,

 

 

THE LANCET, MAY 12, 1979

rom aD
10 °
usa
Q o.. @austaaria
scoriamd ©
- wa
2 6
s u OCAWADA
v
2? 8
2 GIRL LAND
2 @wOoRwar
-° ght tniAuanns
x @oewnake
25 ° @btLGus
2 swi btn e @austhia
a wES1 GEAMANT
z Tal?
3 8. 9
SvrsZER and
e
? FAanct
640 080 120 160 200

WINE CONSUNPTION (L05,p Seole)
Relationbip between 1.1.0. mortalityerate in enen aged 55-64
and wine conqusptlon.

alcohol effect and the correlation coeficiemt with 1.H.D.
deaths 1s of the same magniucs 3 that of Keys’ predic:
won, The figure shows the associanon between 1.4.0.
deaths in males aged 55-64 and the logarithm of wane
consumption (litres per capita per annum).

Repression analysis was done with various subsets of
the andependent vanables. The mos! important hadings
were:

(2) Doctor and nurse density showed relauvely hile
associahon with the death-rates when other vanables
were aken into account.

(DG.N.P. per capita was strongly negatively related
to mortalaty and this effect was andeperident of other
varables.

(3) Cigarette consumpuon was strongly positively
related 10 bronchitis mortality and showed appreciable
associahon with hypertensive disease deaths an both
sexes and 1.H.D.deaths mn females.

(4 Alcohol consumption wat very strongly negatively
assocated with 1H.D, mortality an both males and
females. Of the three alcohol components wine had the
strongest association wath LH.D., its magnitude being the
same as that of total alcohol. The wine effect was strong

DEATH RATE AS DEPENDENT VARIABLE
te a Ne A IS

 

Independent Hvpenenwse » Cerebro axcular | :
vansabdler durast | ao { disease 1 Bronchins Read accadenes
i A EET A _——
1 uw 1 f u ' ” ’ a py '

- ES
Deciots "ee tof S Bo. A pet ea Y » t
Dotees . wot mo. 7 as .8 1oi or bow ek a
GNP Poems beB | [te 2M | oe ye) ae -4 >
Cagarenes 1 We : 6 of use > 1s | w bars ow, 8
Want log scote 3 W 2" 20° 3 “3 Ve ow 1 M
Ress prediction , is -m 6 y 8 3} +0 tb 2 a
"a LTovalsvms . |

of squates * explained” \ ! . | 1

bs the 6 vatset lea ‘ 6s 32 , oe Rr) ae a fone 4 Ys st

*rvatue ict anclysien of shes ateably mine TEC ote needs eS
* the numbers ap ahe sable ore vandardned represen fects see tent