Gvillevd

MEMORANDUM June 6, 1989

TO: H. J. Minnemeyer
FROM: J. H. Bell

SUBJECT: Cigarette Modification Project Report

On Friday May 12 the writer met with Ms. S. Ireland and Dr. J.
Reid to discuss a concern for a more concentrated effort in the
reduction of certain cigarette smoke components which have been
targeted in the cigarette modification project. Ms. Ireland and
Dr. Reid were most receptive to the suggestion that a re-direc-
tion of some activities was in order.

A catechol/phenol analysis has been developed and demonstrated by
the writer. However, the method involves the same instrumenta-
tion that is used for the BAP analysis. The sharing of this
equipment proved to be very clumsy and resulted in a less effi-
cient laboratory operation. Ms. Ireland has agreed to accept
this analysis into her section and has assigned Dr. Aruna Prakash
as the investigator. A Perkin-Elmer LS-40 Fluorescence Spectro-
meter will be needed and is being purchased at this time.

Dr. Reid was agreeable to the suggestion that Dr. Paul
Schickedantz's contribution to this project could best be made in
the investigation of carbonyl removal. Methodologies from lab 10
will be transferred immediately to Dr. Schickedantz. Analytical
procedures can be established in his laboratory in one week. The
actual smoking of cigarettes and the proper use of the smoke
collection system may be an initial problem. However, smoke
samples can be provided to him until a more proficient protocol
is devised.

The NNN analysis which has always been run in the Tobacco Science
Section will remain in that section, but will be done under the
scrutiny of Dr. F. Perini. The results of the analysis have been
rather erratic over the last few months. Variations in ng/cig or
ppm have been as high as 100% while some recoveries have been as
low as 1.5%. Dr. Perini will investigate these problems and make
the necessary procedural changes. In addition, he has been asked
to include NNK with the analysis. This will entail a more
sophisticated clean-up procedure which does not include decolo-
rizing charcoal.

ETSSZELS