Tae NEWS & OBSERVER

Frioay, Ocroser 15,

1999

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

| advise and enjoin those who direct the paper n the tomorrows
never to advocase any cause for personal profit 0 preferment.

[ would wish it always to be “the tocsin” and to ¢ wote itself to the
policies of equality and justice to the underprivil ced. If the paper
should at any time be the voice of self-interest or Secome the
spokesman of privilege or selfishness it would be untrue ta its history.
— from the wall of Josepnus Daniels, Editor ore Publisher 1894-1940

Beyond the smoke

ide-saddle. That may be some-
thing of an overstatement about the
change of image taking place at the
nation's largest cigarette manufactur-
er, Philip Morris. But not by much. On
a new Internet site, the company admits
right out to “overwhelming medical and
scientific consensus that cigarette smok-
ing causes” diseases, including lung can-
cer, emphysema and heart ailments.

This is just blowing smoke, some crit-
ies charge. Lawyer Matthew Myers,
speaking for the Campaign for Tobacco-
Free Kids, points out that Philip Morris
hasn't stated its agreement with this
medical-scientific consensus, but has
simply admitted it exists. Still, it's a
drastic turnabout when a cigarette pro-
ducer of Philip Morris’ stature agrees
to almost inhale its chief opponents’
views and states that smolang “is addic-
tive as that term is most commonly
used today.”

A self-serving campaign? There's no
doubt about that. Indeed, The New York
Times reports, Philip Morris has
embarked on a $100 million corporate
image campaign. Coupled with that is
a verv practical business strategy — to
snuff out the cigarette-reiated legal
claus that have tended to make chain-

Te Marlboro Man has begun riding
8

smokers ot the inc ustry lawyers and
check-writers.

The logic of this tictical switch is not
hard to sue and auonne intends to

0 on mi Qn Cigarettes.
But by sharing moe information with
consumers about t ve risks of smoking,
at least those on wi ich doctors and sci-
entists agree, the company makes it
harder for future sn okers to claim igno-
rance about the dar gers of puffing away.

While fully unde rstandabie from a
business viewpoint this change in direc-
tion surely opens smoke-peddiers to
stricter regulation. Those who make
and enforce laws :.nd regulations can
hardly close their « yes if a top player in
the industry does =verything but own
up ta the disease ind addiction aficat
in the nation’s smi ke rings.

In fact, it’s almc st as if Johnay, the
Philip Morris bellt op of old, had begun
circling the hotel jobby with calls for
David Kessler anc Everett Koop.