INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

REC'D WAR 29 1904 V.S\H.

@) CONFIDENTIAL

RJ Reynultds Topace Company

ny

ROR

March 29, 1984

Subject: Weekly Highlights

R&D Technical Services

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco

ITEMS FOR WEEXLY BRIEF

Cigarette Banding Policy - Representatives from MDD, Brands R&D and R&D
Technica rvices met to discuss procedures currently used for banding
test products. Changes in the tipping design and perforation location over
the past few years have required that the R&D Plant change the banding
location on some products. This has caused Some concern within MDD in com-
Paring data from tests with the different locations. A new policy will be
written by mid-April, Setting standards for banding width and location for
each style that may be run to ensure long-term consistency within each
brand style. Cases where uniquely designed tipping make these Standards
unacceptable will be discussed with MDD and Brands before banding.

Study to Improve Stem Extracton for G7 - Analytical support is being pro-
vided to Tobacco Processing to evaluate modifications in the extraction
procedure used in the preparation of stems for G7. The study is related to
the higher nitrate content of G7 resulting from the addition of whitewater
from burley stems in the process.

Recall of all Outstandi Library Materials ~ The R&D Library collection
will undergo a complete retrospective conversion to the full Library of
Congress cataloguing system in the next several weeks. ‘he entire collec-
tion will be inventoried, relabeled, bar-coded and reshelved. Al)
materials checked out to R&D Staff, including desk copies, must be returned
to the Library no later than Friday, Apr » 1985. °

GENERAL ITEMS

Dumny Packages for Tax Stamping Project ~ Manufacturing has requested ap-
proximately 5.5 million filter rods to be used to pack into STERLING and
MORE 120 packages for testing tax stamping machines. These filters will be
run in the filter area of the R&D Plant the week of March 26. Three people
were borrowed from the STP Group in Manufacturing to assist in this
project.

Material Balance Study ~ A material balance of cations in the Kentucky 1R1
Referénce cigarette is in progress. The 1R1 was Selected because some
published data are available that may serve as a reference point. The

 

ESEL 80n0S