tobacco, paper and filter before smoking, and the ash, butt and TPM after
Smoking will be examined. At this point, al] Samples have been collected
and prepared for analysis. All detectable cations will be examined.

Hydrogen Generator Evaluation ~ Evaluation of a hydrogen generator as an
alternative to cylinder gas in the GC operation of our smoke lab has been
completed. The generator has been completely Satisfactory and, as a
result, two additional generators will be purchased. This will eliminate
the need for hydrogen cylinders in the Smoke lab. Based on our current

consumption of hydrogen, the Benerators will pay for themselves in about

’ 18 months. These generators also offer added safety and greater ease of

operation.

Laboratory Training Course - An ACS video tape training course was attended
by 1T members of Analytionl Services. The course entitled "Chemical

Laboratory Techniques" gives a detailed Step-by-step approach to good
laboratory practices using a variety of apparatus and techniques. The
course Was a good refresher, even for experienced laboratory technicians.

Mass Spectrometry - During his visit to present a seminar last week,

Dr. Maurice Bursey of UNC also met with the mass Spectroscopy staff. Dis-
cussions with Dr. Bursey on our work with aldehydes in the negative ion
mode of APCI confirm indications that it will be virtually impossible to
extract quantitative data from an aldehyde/acid matrix with the TAGA. The
problem arises from the generation of ions of common mass from the alde-
hydes and acids. Dr. Steve Sears of Fundamental R&D has provided excellent
help in interpreting these data which will make a significant contribution
to the knowledge of APCI chemistry of aldehydes and acids.

QA Assistance ~ A basic program for GC operation was prepared and tested

tim

xe:

for Quality Assurance. The program allows a doubling of sample throughput
in the flavorant profile analysis.

OCon_
D. H. Pieh)

Dr. R. E. Morse

Dr. Alan Rodgman

Dr. C. E. Teague, Jr.
Mr. J. D. Phillips
Mr. B. V. Hardin

Mr. L. L. Bass, III

Mr. T. H. Eskew
R&D Technical Services Mers.

hSEtL B8OHOS