sy
RJR INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE taf bee

nay Me LDS —_-
ai Wee me a eee
. VO). can ot
SUBJECT: LNA Consumer Tests DATE: April 21, 1989
TO: Dr. M. E. Stowe FROM: J. P. Dickerson

I recommend cancellation of the consumer test for Project LNA-10P,
scheduled for a 7/31/89 mailout. The LNA-LOV product, which is being mailed
for consumer testing 5/22/89, meets our original objective of obtaining
consumer test data on a "no-nicotine" protocept. The LNA-1OV product has a
blend nicotine of 0.11% and a smoke nicotine yield of 0.05 mg/cigarette.
Although our blend nicotine is 0.11% as compared to 0.05-0.06% in Merit Free
and Next, smoke nicotine in this product is 0.05 mg/cigarette as compared to
0.06 in Merit Free and Next.

The low nicotine in LNA-10V was obtained through conventional
denicotinization of low nicotine tobaccos. Our approach to the LNA-10P
product is based on removal of nicotine by a water extraction process. In
theory, the LNA-10P approach will give approximately the same nicotine value
as the LNA-10V approach, using tobacco blends in inventory.

If we do proceed with the 7/31/89 consumer test, we will be comparing
the water extraction process with conventional denicotinization. Comparison
of the two processes at best has limited value since the approach to water
extraction is being changed significantly.

Eliminating the proposed consumer test would allow Advanced Process
Technology to concentrate their effort on the water extraction process that
would be used in a production facility rather than diverting resources to
producing material for one consumer test.

I recommend that we continue to evaluate the water extracted material we
have on hand and continue to develop low nicotine formulations from the
materials produced by Advanced Process Technology. However, I feel that we
should delay any consumer tests related to LNA-10P until we have done a more
thorough job of process and formulation development.

9.0 Mca

. J. P. Dickerson
JPD/trr

xe: Mr. D. R. Pugh
Mr. W. M. Dufour
Mr. R. G. Haberkern
Dr. D. L. Davis
Mr. A. E. Westmoreland

9G¢r2 0010S