ACTION ON SMOKING AND HEALTH

2013 H Street NW Washington DC 20006-4207 « (202)659-4310.
Internet Address: hitp://ash.org/

COPY

Dear

Thank you for your generous Support of Action on Smoking and Health during 2000! As you
know, all your contributions are tax deductible to the extent allowed by law. The receipt below reflects
your contributions for the past year, and is provided to assist you in preparing your tax retums for 2000,

Your financial partnership enabled us to continue our efforts to protect the tights and health of
NONSMOKERS, and to undertake important new initiatives. As you well know, ASH continues to push
two exciting and promising initiatives — our petition to force OSHA to issue rules restricting smoking in

all workplaces, and our work with the World Health Organization to restrict the spread of tobacco
throughout the world.

For nearly 34 years ASH has relied on people like you who have a personal stake in this battle. As I've
told you before, we get no Support from the government, no money from the giant tobacco settlements
and not a penny from any well-publicized law sult. No, all of our support comes from men and women
like you who understand the importance of our work. You have my sincere thanks.

Sincerely,

John F. Banzhaf Ill
Executive Director and General Counsel

PS. As we prepare for our next Board of Trustees meeting — when our 2001 budget will be approved
- | ask you to consider a special contribution to help us fully fund our programs for the upcoming year.
Your generosity Is the only way we can continue our critical work.

SH This receipt constitutes acknowedgment of your charitable Contribution required by the IRS.
Action on Smoking and Health did not provide any goods or services in retum for your
. Contribution and thus, your gifts are deductible to the extent allowed by law. Action on
Smoking and Health is qualified under USC § 501 (c)(3).

68il Serves

Action on Smoking and Health 2013 H Street NW ¢ Washington DC 20006 « (202) 659-4310 + hitp://ash.org