ee RUB @® CONFIBENTHAL Memorandum

--‘Subject: Weekly Highlights - ** Date: April 13, 1983
Applied R&D

      

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco From: D. H. Piehl

ITEMS FOR WEEKLY BRIEF

Ve WORK HORSE - Employee Mail panelists preferred a WORK HORSE control over
a modified WORK HORSE with the prune concentrate reduced 50%. The control
was directionally preferred for longer lasting flavor. This test was con-
ducted to determine if the natural prune concentrate could be reduced
significantly in the event of a crop failure.

/ e Water Solubles Analysis of G-7 - Levels of extract were varied to determine
the correlation between water solubles in G-7 and filling value. Correla-
tion curves which can be used to predict the increase in filling value as
extract levels decrease are now available. At this time, lowering the water
solubles content of G-7 to increase filling value and thereby reduce costs
does not appear to be feasible due to the lack of availability of the addi-
tional stems’and scrap required to make G-7 with less water solubles.
However, the possibility of eliminating the G-9 dust extract as a means
of improving G-7 uniformity and quality is under investigation.

Je ‘New Packaging Manager - Mr. Jim Joy, currently Manager of Corporate Quality
Packaging at Kellogg, has been hired as Program Manager for New Packaging
Development. He brings 17 years of experience in flexible consumer pack-
aging and will be starting on May 16.

é

-Line Laser Trials - During the past week, assistance was provided to

e start-up of NOW 100 on on-line laser. This product can o y-bé run ;

igarettes/min in order to attain th quired air dilu- -
untered with one maker W 100 when one laser

€ operating speed was reduced

to 3500 cigarettes/minute so that dilution could be maintained until this

problem could be repaired.

       
  
 

 

GENERAL ITEMS

S e Robot for Factory Sampling - The microbot "Teach Mover" robot has been
received for possible application to QA sampling. Preliminary trials
indicate that this low-cost unit will need only minor modifications before
factory sampling trials can be attempted. A sample collection tray has
been ordered from Mechanical Development. , —_

“_

e RJR General Machine Cleaner Solution - A BIR general nachine-slesfer solv
tion has been tested Ore cua teen r_the pa ~ The cleaner is

, quite effective an aces such items as Windex and Hunt's No Film Glass
Cleaner.

AT98 0600S

RIRI FORM 2422—Rev. 7/70