COMPOSITION AND PROCESS FoR --«} SUE EV ADD
ABSORPTION OF HCN; PM #576 7

Drs. Norman B. Rainer and Charles B.pHoelzel of the
Research and Development Department of Philip*Morrts;-hreos—
disclosed to me on and before February 4, 1971, their im-

proved absorbents for hydrogen cyanide.

The invention is a class of absorbents for HCN for
use in cigaret filters and other applications where selec-
tivity is desired, comprising amine complexes of certain
heavy metal salts, particularly the complexes of cuprous
salts, carried on solid substrates,

 

For selective removal of HCN from cigaret smoke various
filter compositions have been proposed. Alkaline additives
such as alkali metal carbonates and the like have been ap-
plied to conventional filter materials. Activated carbon or
charcoal with a surface treatment of copper salt converted
by heat to the oxide have been tried. Keith et al, U. S.
#3,251,365 discloses iron and zinc oxides on high-area car-
riers. Horsewell et al, U. S. #3,550,600 employs zinc
acetate as absorbent,made alkaline with certain bases such as
polyethylenimine, triethanolamine, sodium acetate, or borax.
These compositions have some effectiveness in removing HCN
preferentially. The best results reported show 50 to 85%
removal of HCN. Moreover, the activated carbon types remove
Significant proportions of other gas phase smoke components,
so that there is an effect on flavor of the smoke stream,

The present inventors have discovered that it is
possible to remove 90% to 100% of the HCN from smoke, by the
proper choice of absorbent quantity, substrate, and condi-
tions as will be described in detail below. At least certain
of these absorbents have been shown to be relatively harmless
and non-toxic. They are easily prepared and quite inexpensive.

 

The substrate for the complex should be a solid having
a surface area of at least one square meter per gram and
preferably much larger. A particularly effective support will
be discussed below. The complex compound may be applied to
this from solution (perhaps 0.2% to 5% concentration) in a
volatile solvent, such as alcohol, and the solvent evaporated.
Other familiar methods of applying or distributing the absor-
bent may be used. The absorbent/support is then made a part
of the cigaret filter so that the smoke will have intimate
contact with it. If the support is granular, this may be done
by filling a space in a filter plug with the material so as to

ESTz0r9z07