'R/GRANT NO, 2327M PROGRESS REPORT NO. 1
Period Covered: from 1/1/89 to 5/15/89
ame of Investigator: Joel P. Gallagher

Title of Original Grant: Nicotine and Its Direct Inhibitory Action in the Rat Septal Nuclei

Below are the four specific aims that were outlined to achieve the following overall objective, namely, to
analyze in detail the membrane mechanisms by which nicotine activates a specific nicotinic receptor on septal
neurons to yield inhibition.

A) Since nicotine hyperpolarizes directly dorsolateral septal neurons, we need to determine: the
characteristics of the receptor responsible; the ionic specics and channel to which this receptor is
coupled; and whether nicotine may also alter ion channels localized within the postsynaptic membrane
that are not coupled to this nicotinic receptor.

B) We will determine how nicotine modulates synaptic transmission as recorded within our septal slice
preparation, namely: 1) excitatory acid mediated excitatory transmission and 2) GABA mediated
inhibitory transmission. These studies will include experiments to distinguish pre- and/or post-synaptic
actions.

C) We will determine how nicotine interacts with several substances that we or others have demonstrated
have biological activity within the septum, These substances are endogenous transmitters or
modulators, ¢.g., serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine, somatostatin, etc.; or drugs, e.g., barbiturates,
benzodiazepines, alcohol, etc.

D) Finally, using freshly dissociated septal neurons with patch clamp methodology we will examine the
specific channels opened by nicotine and determine which, if any second-messenger systems may be
associated with CNS nicotinic receptor activation.

mmary of results according to four specific aims stated above:
@ 1. Nicotine hyperpolarizes DLSN neurons

a. Receptor type - Non - skeletal muscle nicotinic receptor

- somewhat sensitive to mecamylamine, but not sensitive to hexamethonium or d-tubocurarine

- completely blocked by kappa-BGTX (neuronal bungarotoxin)

b. Ionic species and channel coupled to CNS nicotinic receptor responsible for hyperpolarization.

- K* - channel

- Ca** - dependent, but does not require initial depolarization.

. response blocked by intracellular injection of GTA, while hyperpolarizations resulting from
application of serotonin, norepinephrine or dopamine persist.

- response persists after pertussis toxin treatment which blocks GABA,-induced

hyperpolarization.
2. Nicotine can also depolarize these same neurons.
a. Receptor type - different from hyperpolarization, since mecamylamine enhances depolarization.
b. lonic Species - unknown, presently
- depolarization associated with decreased conductance, maybe potassium
ion,
B, Nicotine alters synaptic transmission
1, Nicotine primarily acts to depress late hyperpolarizing response (LHP) and then fast inhibitory
postsynaptic potential (IPSP). There appears to be little effect on excitatory synaptic potential,
but additional experimetns using both non-NMDA and NMDA antagonists are required.
C, Nicotine interaction with other substances - to be done.
N. Nicotine action on freshly dissociated neurons - to be done.

esse see attached manuscript submitted to Nature and two abstracts.