C.W. Jameson, Ph.D.

September 18, 1998
Page 2

Because the court’s opinion is lengthy, I have identified several excerpts that summarize the
court’s opinion as it relates to EPA’s methodology and analysis of the ETS data. In its ruling,
the court stated:

1.

wan

   

“In this case, EPA publicly committed to a conclusion before research had begun; excluded
industry by violating the Act’s procedural requirements; adjusted established procedure and
scientific norms to validate the Agency’s public conclusion, and aggressively utilized the
Act’s authority to disseminate findings to establish a de facto regulatory scheme intended to
restrict Plaintiffs products and to influence public opinion. In conducting the ETS Risk
Assessment, EPA disregarded information and made findings on selective information; did
not disseminate significant epidemiologic information; deviated from its Risk Assessment
Guidelines; failed to disclose important findings and reasoning; and left significant questions
without answers. EPA’s conduct left substantial holes in the administrative record. While so
doing, EPA produced limited evidence, then claimed the weight of the Agency’s research
evidence demonstrated ETS causes cancer.” (Pages 89 and 90)

“Using its normal methodology and its selected studies, EPA did not demonstrate a
statistically significant association between ETS and lung cancer. This should have caused
EPA to reevaluate the inference options used in establishing its plausibility theory. A risk
assessment is supposed to entail the best judgment possible based upon the available
evidence. (Legal citation omitted.] Instead, EPA changed its methodology to find a
statistically significant association.” (Page 81)

“The record and EPA’s explanation to the court make it clear that using standard
methodology, EPA could not produce statistically significant results with its selected
studies.” (Page 77)

“The studies EPA selected did not include a significant number of studies and data which
demonstrated no association between ETS and cancer.” (Page 80)

“Since Chapter 2 found ETS and MS [mainstream smoke] not sufficiently similar, Chapter 3
found them similar, and Chapter 6 found them dissimilar, EPA apparently used a different
risk assessment methodology for each chapter .... The court is faced with the ugly possibility
that EPA adopted a methodology for each chapter, without explanation, based on the
outcome sought in that chapter. ... Use of cigarette equivalents analysis may have led [sic] to
a conclusion that ETS is nota Gréup A carcinogen.” (Page 60)

’

  

GSES TITZs