STAR (PARK FOREST),
CHICAGO HEIGHTS, IL

 

 

THURSDAY 7,040
NOV 4 1999
CENA CL
SURRELLE'S
dae a 3 ona,

Kid Rhino
makes music
and stories for
the kid in
everyone.
Recent! it
released “Star
Wars Episode
1; The Phan-
t o m
Menace,”an
audio adapta-
tion of the film
with the origi-
nal actors’ voic-
es and a 24.
page read-
along story- pom
book. Also, it started a training camp for future Jedi
Knights with its “Star Wars Episode: Junior Jedi
Training Manual” that contains the Jedi code,
oaths, lessons, activities and an official Jedi patch.
These “Read Along” items range in price from $7.95
to $11.95. Click on wither www.starwars.com or
www.kidrhino.com or call toll-free (800) 432-0020.

Kids smarter than parents?

It’s true — at least children have more Internet
know-ledge than parents, according to a survey

commissioned by Ameritech. One in six parents -

believe that lack of knowledge prevents them from
supervising their child on the Net. That’s not sur-
prising, given today’s busy work schedules. But
Ameritech has a solution. Click on
www.ameritech.com/cruisecontrol and find out
about its free CD-ROM that gives families an into
to the Net, a little about basic terms, safety tips and
a list of educational, family-friendly sites. Not con-
nected? Telephone (800) NET-8775. Other Web
sites to visit looking for information about the safe-
wy,

   

 

ty of children on the Net include www.safekids.com
and www.GetNetWise.org.

“Take 10”

Parents often spend 10 minutes with their chil-
dren driving around the suburbs on their way to
and from “things.” Now a national education cam-
paign “Take 10” suggests parents spend that time
talking to their kids about smoking. The campaign,
offers a free parenting guide that helps parents talk
with kids in their own language about why smoking
is harmful. Click on www.2take10.com or telephone,
a toll-free hotline at (877) 2-Take-10. ° , ,

Spring’s on the way! — :

Crestwood’s Little League fans will find a link to
their team successes and news at www.peoplelikey- -
ou.com. There are two young players with the
words “It’s for the Kids,” the league's slogan. Click
and go to find out registration is Nov. 12. :

Double the fun

Great times are ahead for children in the
Chicagoland area. Click on www.brookfieldzoo.org

’ and find out about a Nov. 10 event at Riverside~

Brookfield High School (next to the Zoo). Dr. Merlin:
Tuttle, founder of Bat Conservation International,
gives a talk about the “Amazing World of Bats” at,
7:30 p.m. The lecture is part of the Zoo’s 1999 Fall:

_ series. And, mark your calendars now for the annu~

al Christmas Around the World celebration at the
Museum of Science and Industry. Click on
www-Msichicago.org for its hours and admission,
costs. This year, the annual holiday fest ‘will
include a special exhibit of classic toys like Lincoln.
‘Logs and the Slinky. The 4,500-square-foot exhibi‘
tion includes some fun activities including spectac/
ular settings through View-Mastors or posing for
photos with Barbie and G.I. Joe. :

ad

88809718

—_