we had even
discussed that it wasn't quite as “hip and trendy" now that there are other more
appropropriate titles. Wouldn't hurt us to lose this title and substitute another.

Paper -- I wouldn't want to take us out, but I do think that we can consider
STAGGERING Camel and Kamel instead of having them both in the same issue along
with Winston and Salem. (Right now Camel is planned there 12x and Kamel 10x!)

Similarly, we should CONSIDER staggering C and K in some of the national titles where
4 or 5 RJR brands are planned -- these include: Interview, Spin and Vibe (Salem makes 5
brands!) and Details and Rolling Stone (Salem makes 4 brands!). We should consider not
running BOTH Camel and Kamel in the same issue in these books.

In these national books, SALEM will be running their 4-page insert regionally. But we as
a company already have so much business in these titles that even with an insert the
Salem message is in danger of ‘getting lost.’ If we stagger C and K, we're not walking
away -- we're just making sure that neither of OUR messages gets lost either!

Finally, lets think about reducing Kamel's schedule in Village Voice. Right now this title
is getting WAY TOO MUCH RJR business -- 28x Salem, 22x Kamel, 52x Camel Club
page, 24x Winston and 6x Moonlight.

I think Kamel may be better off taking the road less traveled.....and letting the Club page
rule for us in this pub.

Let me know your thoughts....and Jet's work out what's best for every brand.

(p.s., I've come up with compromises for Winston and Moonlight to make too -- don't
feel like Camel's the Lone Ranger here -- I'm trying to keep the hurt off any individual
brand while giving Salem the best possible shot.

From: LaBrecque, Mark P.

To: Ittermann, Patti F.; Williard, B. Steve

Subject: FW: New York: Print Advertising Co-Existence

Date: Monday, November 17, 1997 8:11AM

Joan, Patti, and Joe,

FYI, Brice can't make today's meeting. Let's meet today and discuss what we can. I will
follow up with Brice. Thanks.

From: O'Brien, J. Brice

To: LaBrecque, Mark P.; Michalek, Joseph J.; O'Brien, J. Brice

Subject: New York: Print Advertising Co-Existence

Date: Thursday, November 13, 1997 1:15PM

Dear Joe and Marc:

Iam sorry, but I'm going to miss Monday's meeting to discuss clutter in NY media.

RJRO000000046007722
70014 2453

 

LScE 6LLeS