Here are my initial thoughts:

1. NY Metro: Camel Growth Region

As you guys know NY metro is considered a part of the Camel Growth Markets and
therefore is a key market being measured for growth in 97 and 98. In '96 and '97 we
heavied up our media efforts in the NY Metro and will continue in '98,

2. SOV in New York Print Media:

In alternative weeklies we can work around each others current rotation plans, but taking
Camel out of books or diminishing frequency to raise another brands SOV (impact) is
unacceptable. In monthly publications the plan, is what it is, for Camel except for
possible additions of publications. It would be a gross mistake strategically for Camel to
dilute previous efforts in '96 and '97 to strengthen Marlboro, Winston, Salem, Kool,
Lucky Strike, Parliament, et al's SOV in books which are supremely important to
achieving Camel's Growth Region's goals. The clutter is bad now, but the outlook for
greater clutter is worse. The only solution I seem to find that works with cluttered media
is more powerful and more unique creative. That is the only thing that will break the
clutter in '98 for all brands.

3. Menthol Advertising

In books which Salem and Camel have rotations scheduled I can commit that Camel will
try diligently not to have either Camel Menthol or Menthe advertising in those books
concurrent with Salem creative. We will try our very best along with LHC.

4. The Target

We all seem to have the same desire to switch a 21-24 smoker. Camel and Winston have
the greatest overlap in my opinion in terms of pure smoker needs. Although the menthol
category in NY is overdeveloped I believe we are talking to uniquely diverse segments
with Salem in the fray. Smokers will process all advertising, but will find advertising for
a brand that satisfys their needs much more salient (Which is great for Salem and the
supreme Salem creative). 1 feel the perceived issue with voice clarity and share between
Camel, Winston and Salem is much more of a problem between Camel and Winston than
Salem.

RJRO000000046007722

70011 2454

 

BSCE 6LL2S