THe Counci, For 'PFouacco REsearcn—WU.S.A., Inc.
POO THIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y. 30022

TORERT FL GEWTENBACH
PRESIDENT

April 22, 1987

Jack Gauldic, Ph.D.
Dept. of Pathology
McMaster University
Health Sciences Centre, 4HI7
1200 Main St. West
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8N 3Z5
Re: Grant No. 16834

Dear Dr. Gauldie:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to award you a continuation
grant in the amount of $76,258.00 for the period from July 1, 1987 to June 30, 1988 for the
study proposed in your application “Fibroblast-Mast Cell Interaction in Inflammatory Lung
Disease.” It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional
authorities.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1988, even though we
recognize that your application proposes a study extending two years beyond that date.
Therefore, if by November 30, 1987 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a
report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural Information for
Grantees”. Please fill in the attached “Notice of Research Project” and return it to me. Drs.
Harmon McAllister, Research Director, and David Stone, Associate Research Director, will
serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant.
Please consult the staff as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the progress
of your study.

AS Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at
the end of cach grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of
expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution’s official financial
statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficits cannot be recovered
from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Finally, please be aware that our
failure to receive timely annual financial statements from your grants office will stop further
grant payments. Appropriate forms will be sent to your financial officer at the end of the
grant year, Administrative problems are relatively rare and we hope that this statement of our
fiscal policies will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Cordially,

(Oy JDebet,

Robert F. Gertenbach
Encls.
cc: Mr. Brian J. Underdown
RFG:mjs

bee: Auditor, LP, RO'’K, Monitor, DC, MJS, File

 

 

 

 

50177282