ATTACHMENT C

 

TO: D. Dangoor DATE:

February 16, 1990
FROM: N. Lund

SUBJECT: Marlboro Ultra Lights

This provides an alternative to our February lst testing plan for
Marlboro Ultra Lights. We recommend replacing the original proposal
with a plan to open new test market(s) with alternate packaging,

(soft), and marketing programs highly targeted to competitive
smokers.

Rationale for this direction is discussed below. Rich’s

recommendation is attached. It provides more detailed support and
begins to sketch out the new plan.

 

Brand developed a plan to increase competitive conversion and restore
Lights growth trend in the current test markets. While the plan
would likely achieve these objectives, full costing out of the
programs discloses a spending level so high as to raise serious
questions about expandability and projectability of results. This
factor, combined with several strategic issues outlined below, lead
us to a recommendation to abandon development of the Phase II plan in
current test markets. We believe we can generate new, perhaps more
relevant, learning through new test market(s).

TEST MARKET RESULTS SUMMARY

Performance in three test markets suggests Marlboro Ultra Lights is
likely to achieve a 1.2 ~ 1.4 share of market, contributing however
only +.3 incremental share points to PM and +.5 to Marlboro.
Further, the entry is not demonstrating growth and Marlboro Lights
has been destabilized. While nearly 60% of converters fall within
our 25-44 year old target, smokers fall disproportionately to the
younger end of that target.

STRATEGIC ISSUES
Ideal Ultra Launch Timing/Implications

Brand believes Marlboro Ultra Lights should ideally be launched when
such a launch would add significant on-going growth for the brand.

We believe that two factors would make for the ideal launch
environment: 1) a vital ultra category defined by accelerated growth
and/or 2) a slow down in Marlboro Lights growth trend. Accelerated
category growth could result from heightened health/social concerns
and/or a marketplace destabilized by the introduction of a
revolutionary product.

SOISICTH IG