The product/package/plan tested in the original test markets we
designed to maximize Marlboro’s opportunity in such an ideal re
environment. We resisted test marketing because the Marketplace do
not currently reflect such category dynamics. In effect, we tested
the ideal Marlboro ultra lights of tomorrow - today. The results of
current test markets are not projectable to an ideal launch
timeframe. We expect the proposition currently in test would be
demonstrating a growth trend in an ideal launch environment and would
represent a sound strategic entry for Marlboro.

and Growth O ctives

In order to achieve the objectives of annual business gains over the
next five years, Marlboro must accelerate its share from +6/10
annually to +8/10 annually. We believe only a combination of
initiatives can provide such growth:

o Continued added value promotion (possibly, higher)
and Parent advertising to maintain current growth
trend

o "Price" tools to help defend our position as the P/V
category expands

o Line extension(s) to expand our franchise

Further, we believe these initiatives must be in effect
simultaneously not individually.

ideal Ultra Plan/Less-Than-Ideal Timeframe

Marlboro/PM business objectives may force us to launch Ultra Lights
in what is less than ideal market environment/timeframe; i.e. soon.
Such a scenario forces us to re-evaluate our ultra proposition; what
should we launch and how should we launch in the near term.

Against the objective of higher non-PM share and lowering PM/Marlboro
cannibalization, we should test a tactical, "fair share" of category
strategy. The plan would include:

o targeting the biggest competitive opportunity
- category is soft packs (non-menthol 81% soft)
- category is white tipped (non-menthol 74% white)
- PM virtually owns Box and cork ultras

o introducing soft pack/white tipped Kings and 100’s

o reducing, but not eliminating, broad media exposure

o reducing, but not eliminating, broad and young adult reach,
trial programs

o fielding heavier trial and conversion programs specifically
at non-PM ultra/low tar smokers

FO939ZTF 92