6
&

Table 1. Regulatory Substances of Mito-
genic and Other Cell Functions.

 

 

Stimulators
Platelet-derived growth factor
Endothelial-cell growth factor
Fibroblast growth factor
Smooth-muscle-cell- derived growth factor
Interleukin-1
Interleukin-6
Transforming growth Factor-6
Low-deusity lipoproteins
Vasoactive substances
Angiotensin {L
Epinephrine
Morepinephrine
Serotonin
Neuropeptide substances P and K
Endorhelin
Thrombin
Leukotriene By, Cy, Da
rostaglandin E,, prostacyclin
Inhibitors
Transforming growth factor-9
Heparin-like factors
Vasorelaxant substances
Endothelium-derived relaxing factor
Prostaglandin E, Es, prust
Interferon gamma

 

 

During phase 3 (day 14 to 3 months), intimal thick-
ening progresses. This is due in part to the prolifera-
uion and hypertrophy of smooth-muscle cells and to
the accumulation of extracellular matrix, which con-
tributes not only to the fibrotic organization of the
thrombi, but also to the camposition of growing ath-
erosclerotic plaques. The fibrinous tissue of athero-
sclerouic plaques is composed of collagen, proteogly-
cans, clastin, and glycoproceins.***

The role of thrombin in this three-phase fibrotic
organization of the mural thrombus is also emerg-
ing. After vascular damage, the enzymatically active
thrombin is produced during phase | of thrombesis
and is incorporated into the thrombus and the extra-
cellular matrix.”*'! Subsequently, it may be released
gradually in active form during spontaneous fibrinoly-
sis or during thrombus organization. Surface-bound
fibrin in particular may act as a reservoir for enzymal-
ically active thrombin." ‘Thus, the existence of a
reservoir of slowly released thrombin, with its known
ability to bind to platelet membrane receptors and
produce platelet activation, may help explain how,
after substantial vascular damage (Type II or IIJ},
plateicts come to be involved in the relatively de-
layed process of smooth-muscle-cell migration (phase
2}. In addition, recent studies have shown thrombin
to be a potent activator of multiple growth-relat-
ed signals in smooth-muscle cells, including the ex-
pression of the c-fos oncogene, which may be related
to increases in protein synthesis and hypertrophy.”
Such hypertrophy of the smooth-muscle cells may be
important in the early stages of medial activation
of these cells (phase 1), but it may also be one of
the triggers of the synthesis and secretion of the late
intimal extracellular matrix of thrombus organization
(phase 3).

 

VHE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE

 

These pathologic and experimental observations
indicate that disruption of small atherosclerotic
plaques, with subsequent mural thrombosis and fi-
brotic organization o: the thrombus, may contribute
to the progression of atherosclerosis. Hawever, the rel-
ative prevalence of this process of plaque disruption
with mural thrombus formation and organization, in
comparison with the more progressive myointimal
proliferative process clue to chronic endothelial injury
postulated by Ross.' is unknown. Nevertheless, it has
potential clinical importance if mural thrombosis can
be decreased by platelet-inhibitor or anticoagulant
therapy. In this regard, we have recently completed
a five-year crial of platelet- inhibitor therapy on the
angiographic progr n of coronary disease, with
promising preliminury results.

 

 

 
 

 

 

   

Contribution of Plaque Disruption and Thrombosis to the
Acute Coronary Syridrames

   

Disruption of an a herosclerotic plaque (Lype III
injury or damage), with cesultant intraluminal throm-
bosis, is an important mechanism of plaque develop-
ment and progression and also has a fundamental role
in the pathogenesis (il unstable angina, acute myocar-
dial infarction, and sudcen death (Fig. 2). Thus, al-
though coronary thrombotic occlusion causing acute
myocardial infarctina was suspected by Herrick at the
turn of the century’! only over the past few vears
have investigations led Lo a better understanding of
how a thrombus forms and is involved in acute is-
chemic coronary events. Contributions from several
groups!" hay cleurly shown that thrombus for-
maton, usually duc ta atheroselerotic-plaque disrup-
tion, plays a fundamesial part in the development of
the acute coronary syudromes. In addition, accumu-
lating evidence indicuces that the resulting intra-
luminal thromboric process is dynamic and repet-
idivel® 9° (Fig 51. ‘Uhus, in some patients with
unstable angina, plaque disruption mav lead to inter-
mittenit or transient vessel occlusion and ischemia by a
labile thrombus.*' [1 others, more severe vascular
damage in the form ot a large ulcer may lead to the
formation of a fixed thrombus and a more chronic
ocelusion, resulting in acute myocardial infarction.”
However, even these thrombotic occlusions may re-
solve with thrombolytic therapy as well as spontane-
ously? Within hours er days they can recur, both
pathologically and chin scaly.

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

   

 

 

 

Contribution of Throntosis without Plaque Disruption to
Silent Occlusion

Recent evidence
study”?
to total occlusion about three times more frequently
than do tess severe lesions, but this process only intre-
quently results in neocardial imerction. In contrast,
85 percent of infarce related lesions were nat hemody-
uamically importance : stenosis of less Uian 75 percent
of the diameter) when lirst examined. These findings
support the cancent that the disruption of small

rom a prospective angiographic
suggesls Unat severe stenoses tend to progress

 
 
 

50612440