Val. 3260 No. + MECHANISMS OF DIS
M-LOL,
Surface IGAM
AGE
LOL Q\

Endothelial

  
 

\POGF = MLDL,
“\ FGFECGF

SFB Nis

Endatheiin

 
  
 

: FGFIECGF
FGFECGF] :

Platelet

Figure 4. Diagram of the Early Evolution of Spontaneous Atherosclerosis, Showing
Some of the Complex Interactions between and among the Cells of Major Importance

in Atheroma Formation.

Molecules with a predominantly stimulatory function (described more completely in
Table 1) with respect to growth, contraction, adhesion, secretion, or gene expression
are depicted with solid lines. Molecules that inhibit any of the above functions are
depicted with broken lines. Adapted from Hathaway and March'* with the permission
of the publisher. M-LDL denotes modified low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, ICAM
intracellular adhesion molecules, TGF transforming growth factor-8, CSF-1 colony-
stimulatirg factor-1, IF interferon gamma, IL-1 interleukin-1, LDL low-density lipopro-
tein cholesterol, PDGF platelet-derived growth factor, FGF fibroblast growth factor,
ECGF endothelial-ceil growth factor, O, oxygen, SDGF smooth-muscle-cell—derived
growth factor, EDRF endothelium-derived relaxing factor, andl NO nitrous oxide.

that intermittent thrombus formation and fragmenta-
tion are common and eventually lead to vascular oc-
clusion. Further evidence supporting the role of
thrombus incorporation in plaque progression is pro-
vided by a series of recent studies by Bini et al. and
Smith et al.“ that used antibodies specifically directed
to platelets, fibrin, fibrinogen, and fibrin- or fibrino-
gen-degradation products. They demonstrated that in
advanced and fibrous plaques, products related ta
platelets and fibrin were detected in the mtima, the
neointima, and even in the deeper medial layer, espe-
cially in areas of loose connective tissue. In addition,
recent studies that used in situ hybridization of ath-
erosclerotic plaques obtained by endarterectomy,” as
well as serial angiographic studies,**’ suggest that
thrombus formation or organization and acute or sub-
acule growth of atherosclerotic plaques commonly oc-
cur together.

Experimental observations: the fibrotic organization of mu-
ral thrombi. What regulatory factors lead Lo the fi-
brotic organization of mural thrombi? Using recent
ifiormation, we will address this question with respect
to two important elements of the thrombotic process:
platelets and thrombin.

For several years it has been postulated that plate-
lets, by adhering to and aggregating at sites of a dam-

 

   
   
  

 
   
    

POGF/SDGF
FGFIECGF
It

  
 
  

ASE — FUSTER EV AT . i

agee vascular surface (Pype II or

IU Gamage) and subsequently re-

leasing platelet-derived growth fac-

tor and other mitogenic factors

LoL such as transforming growth factor-
h may also act as a mito-
genic inhibitor), have a role in the
thrombouc and subsequent myofi-
brozc response of atherosclerosis’
g. 4, Vable 1). This hypothesis
was supported by observations in
ts lacking von Willebrand fac-
: plasma protein required for

the normal adherence and aggrega-
tion of platelets co sites of vascu-
lar injurv, Thus, pigs with homo-
yegous von Willebrand’s disease
istant to thrombosis?" and
to the development of spontaneous
atherosclerosis.” Evidence of the
riance of platelets in the myo-
cic vascular response that fol
s damage and mural thrombosis
es from two earlier studies in
ch rabbits with thrombocytope-
nia that were subjected to balloon
arie abrasion had substanual-
ly less intimal thickening than con-
trol animals with normal platelet

2 H82

 
 

 

J PocE
FGFIECGF
tet

 

 

 

    

  

are

 

inuy

 

fbr

  

 

 

  

 

Cok
ecency, the rate of platelets in
the vascular mvofibrotic response
has been studied with the use of
balloon injury-induced thrombo-
sis in the carolid aricries of pigs and rats. Vhree phas-
es in the process ot myohbrosis have been distin-
guished"! Phase 1 the deposition of platelet
thrombi, which occurs within minutes of vascular u-
jury and is complete within 24 hours. After appro:
mately 24 hours, smooth-muscle cells in the media
begin to undergo hypertrophy and proliterate, as de-
tected by increased DNA synthesis. Such early repli-
cation of medial smeoch-muscle cells has been ob-
served to result from direct mechanical trauma, either
by the release of invravellular non-platelet-dependent
fibroblast growth factor or by the induction of a path-
way of autocrine and selfstimulating non-platelet-
dependent platelet-derived growth factor.??

Phase 2 begins approximately on day 4 and is
marked by the migration of smooth-muscle cells from
the media into the intima. The cells continue to mi-
grate and then to proliferate until day 14, when the
population approaches its maximum. Platelets may
induce the migration of smooth-muscle cells by secret-
ing platelet-derived vrowth factor, which is known to
have chemotactic as well as mitogenic activity.” As is
the case in the early proliferation of medial smooth-
muscle cells, after migrating to the intima, smooth-
muscle cells may participate in a non-platelet-depend-
ent autocrine pathway of mtimal proliferation. >*

 

 

  
  

 

 

  
   

 

 

 

     

c

 

 

 

   

50612439