248 THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINI

stenosis in over two thirds. Similarly, Little and co-
workers” reported thac the artery that subsequently
became occluded had only mild stenosis (<50 per-
cent) on the first angiogram in two thirds of patients
and less than 70 percent stenasis in the vast majority
of cases. Moreover, in only one third of patients was
the infarction due to occlusion of the artery with the
most severe stenosis. All this information has recently
been confirmed by Nobuyoshi et al.?? Thus, it is ap-
parent from these studies that the lesions responsible
for unstable angina or myocardial infarction often
have only mild-to-moderate stenosis at the first evalu-
ation.

Angiographic studics in patients with acute myo-
cardia! infarction who have received thrombolytic
therapy have shown that after thrombolysis, a consid-
erable proportion had an underlying lesion with less
than 70 percent stenosis.’*7* Furthermore, if we con-
sider that residual thrombus partially accounts for
the degree of stenosis found at catheterization after
thrombolysis, the severity of the “original atheroscle-
rouc lesion” may be even less than that reported in
angiographic studies.”

It should be emphasized that even though angiogra-
phy is considered the gold standard for the evaluation
of coronary anatomy, several studies have concluded
that angiography may underestimate the severity of
coronary atherasclerosis.“"' For example, Glagov et
al?! found in a postmortem evaluation thal Coronary
arteries enlarge in relation to the presence of athero-
sclerosi consequently, the luminal area, as seen an-
giographically, may be preserved despite the presence
of substantial anatomical stenoses."!

Therefore, two important issues need to be consid-
ered in the angiographic evaluation of patients with
coronary disease. First, angiography is helpful in as-
sessing the severity of coronary disease and, as such,
can be used to predict the risk of morbidity and mor-
tality related to occlusive coronary events. However,
with the exception of its ability to detect an irregular
and ulcerared lesion itt acute coronary syndromes,
which can he used to predict the site of impending
thrombosis or rethrombosis,™ angiography cannot ac-
curately predict future sites of coronary occlusion.
Thus, in many patients, acute ischemic events are a
complication not necessarily of severe stenoses, but
tather of the disruption of the associated mildly-to-
moderately stenotic, lipid-rich plaques; that is, in con-
trast to the Abrotic and calcitied stenoses, the mild-
to-moderate stenoses are softer and more prone to
disruption because of their high fat content. Second,
angiography may underestimate the extent and sever-
ity of the athcrosclerolic involvement of coronary
arteries.

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Lipid-Rich Plaques and Plaque Disruption

Pathologic studies have revealed that relativels
small atherosclerotic plaques are commonly composed
of a crescentic mass of lipicls, separated from the ves-
sel lumen by a fibrous cap.*'"4* Indeed, plaques that
undergo disruption tend to be relatively small and
soft, with a high concentration of chalesterol and its

   

Jan. 23. 1992

esters.'* Increased shear forces in the area of stenosis.
sudden changes in ixrraluminal coronary pressure ar
tone,” and bend! sy andl uwisting of an artery during
each heart contraction may contribute to the disrup-
tion of these plaques

Imaging of Hpid-rich plaques is emerging as an im-
portant research tool. given the susceptibility of these
plaques to disruption. ‘lt may soon be possible to de-
tect fatty plaques in the vascular system by several
techniques, such as intravascular ultrasonography?
or noninvasive Magnetic resonance imaging, ultraf:
computed tomography
imaging

 

   

 

 

st
. 8pectroscapy. or radioisotope

Macrophages and Fiague Disruption

Even though the rele of the macrophage in the de-
velopment of athe: i uggested early in
this century, interest in the participation of this cell in
atherogenesis has ony recently reemerged. Vhe carli-
est lesions in human atherosclerosis are composed of
layers of macrophages wr foam cells, which presum-
ably originate in virculaung monocytes, lipid-laden
smooth-muscle cells. and scattered or confluent extra-
ceHular pid (Stary T. CL. ILE or EV lesions).* With
age, some of the lesions became predominantly libro-
muscular, whereas others become fibrolipid (Stary V
lesions) and prone t: disruption. In fibrolipid lesions
macrophages are also numerous.

The role of ma 1ages in athcrogene
recently reviewed."
phages participate in the uptake and metabolism of
lipids, processes thut appear to be crucial to the devel-
opment af raised tatiy streaks and advanced athero-
sclerotic plaques. Macrophages may also contribute to
atherogenesis by oi her mechanisms, including the en-
hancement of transport and oxidation of low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol. the secretion of a mitogenic
factor (similar to plateiet-derived growth factor) that
leads to the prolileration of smooth-muscle eclls and
stimulation of plague neovascularizition, and the
generation of toxic products (rec radicals, products of
lipid oxidation) that, as previously discussed, may fa-
cilitate endothelial damage (Type I injury)" and
subsequent placteler dvposigon and chrombus- depend-
ent fibromuscular orzanization. Most important, mac-
rophages can release nroteases (elastase and collage-
nase) thatm igest the extracellular mutrix favoring
the formation of au abscess type of lesion and con-
tribute to the diserption of the plaque (Type [1]
injury).25" Indeed. tologic analysis of lipicl-rich
plaques whose disruption led to thrombosis has dis-
closed the presence of macrophages and intiltrating
T lymphocytes.“ Furthermore, in the context of the
complicated plaque. macrophages can enhance focal
thrombogenesis bv reccasing tissue factor: and. con-
ceivably, plasminog-n aceivator inhibitor-1

Investigation of dir way in which monocytes adhere
to dysfunctional cudothelium and migrate ta the ves-
sel wall, of the macrophage membrane receptors
responsible for Uhe vp utke of cholesterol?" and of the
mechanisms underiving their release of enzymes aud
lovic products" mas provide a better understand-

 

 

 

 

 

is has been
To suMminarize, macroa-

   

 

    

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

50612442