Val. 3260 No.4

  
   

 

   
 
  

MECHANISMS OF DISEASE. — FLUSTER ET AL. . 27

Severe !
Plaque
stenosis

... Large
fissure y

  

Lipid pool . Occlusive
—— thrombus Reacclusion
Macrophages {
Stress j
Tensile, ~ ‘ Moderate
internal Fissure a piace
Shear “ \ A
torces, \ A... Small
axternai N SAY fissure \
. oS. Mural
thrombus
Lipid-Rich Plaque Thrombus Lysis, Fibromuscular
Plaque Disruption Residual Response
(Stary V) Thrombus

Figure 5. Typical Dynamic Evotution of the Complicated Disrupted Plague Shown in Figure 2.
See the text for details.

plaques is important in the pathogenesis of acute myo-
cardial infarction, whereas longstanding severe steno-
ses more commonly result in total vessel occlusion,
with a small or silent infarction or no infarction at all,
perhaps because of the presence of well-developed coal-
lateral vessels. Unlike small plaques, which may
be lipid-rich and prone to disruption, severely stenotic
plaques tend to be very fibrotic and stable.*! There-
fore, it is conceivable that, in contrast to thrombotic
occlusion of small plaques, which is frequently the
result of plaque disruption, thrombotic occlusion of
severe stenotic plaques is the result of decreases in
flow (stasis) as well as in the endothelium.!'°?

PaArHOGENESIS OF THE PROGRESSION OF
ATHEROSCLEROSIS AND THE ACUTE CORONARY
SYNDROMES

The complicated plaque, which contributes to the
progression of coronary atherosclerosis and to the
acute coronary syndromes, will now be analyzed in
terms of the pathogenesis of the three most important
contributors: plaque disruption, thrombosis, and vas-
oconstriction,

 

Pathogenesis of Atherosclerotic-Plaque Disruption

The fact that atherosclerotic-plaque disruption
leads to thrombus formation has been known for many
years.*™ Although rupture of the coronary vasa va-
sorum with hemorrhage within the plaque may ocea-
sionally contribute to plaque disruption,” more recent
pathologic, angiographic, and angioscopic studies
have clearly established an association between pri-
mary plaque fissuring or ulceration and the develop-
ment of unstable angina, acute myocardial infarction,
or sudden ischernic death.'?''"""! The anatomical and
physiologic characteristics of fissured plaques, the
ability to identify and predict which lesions are prone
to disruption, and the reversal of these pathologic

 

 

 

50612441

processes are being explored by many investigators.
We will analyze what are cansidered to be the four
most important contributors to plague disruption: dis-
ruption of small atherosclerotic plaques as assessed at
angiography, the presence of lipid-rich plaques, the
activity of macrophages. and the eflects of stress on
the vessel wall in plaque disruption.

 

The Disruption of Sniaii Plaques as Assessed at
Angiography

The severity of coronarv-artery stenosis and the
number of diseased vessels are markers for future car-
diac morbidity and mertality.”? However, only over
the past few years fis it become apparent that coro-
nary lesions with leys severe angiographic stenosis are
more prone to rapid progression to severe stenosis or
total occlusion and that this process may account for
up to two thirds of ite cases of unstable angina or
acute myocardial intarction.’° Por example, a study of
patients with unstabl: na who had two sequential
angiograms revealed : hs iL 72 percent of the lesions that
progressed had less than 350 percent stenosis on the
first angiogram.”' ‘Lhe coronary lesions that pro-
total occlusion had eccentric

 

 

 

 

  

gressed to less than

shapes, characterized by a narrow neck and overhang-
ing edges or scalloped borders in most cases. Lesions
with this particular morphology are thought to repre-
sent plaque disrnprian with or without a partially oc-

clusive thrombus." Ladeed. postmortem angiographic
studies” have shown that eccentric lesions with irreg-
ular borders cammonty represent plaque rupture or
hemorrhage or superimposed, partially occluding, or
recanalived thrombus. A recent study by Ambrose et

7° that examined the angiographs: progression of
scromae discase in paticuts with myocardial infarc-
uon found that on the initial angiogram the lesion
responsible for the infarction had less than 50 percent
stenosis in half the cases and less than 70 percent