244

 

THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE

Jan. 23, 1992

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pathological findings Growing plaque
Early lesion Complicated plaque Old
| Disruption, mu- Disruption, ac- | No disruption, oc- fibrotic
Stary I-IV Stary V_ | ral thrombus | _ctusive thrombus _| clusive thrombus occlusion
i
|
Clinical findings ae om —,
\y
| Ir {
i Acute syndromes |
Myocardial infarction \ iy |
Bie Unstable angina P| \
y Ischemic sudden death \ 4
WX
\ ‘

\

 

Angina’
pectoris

No symptoms

 
 

Atherogenic > K _
risk factors
ge ee
0 20 40

 

 

Acute silent

 

occlusive
process
_ Thrombogenic : —
tisk factors
50 ; ~ 60

Age (years)

Figure 2. Typical Early Evolution and Progression of Coronary Atherosclerosis, According tc te Pathological and Clinical Findings.
See the text for details.

ral thrombosis at the site of plaque disruption is im-
portant ta the progression of atherosclerosis.
Macroscopical and microscopical observations in humans.
In an autopsy study’ of coronary arteries in 29 pa-
uents with atheromatous disease who died of noncar-
diac causes, Davies et al. found that 17 percent of the
patients had fissures in atherosclerotic plaques and, in
some cases, overlying thrombi as well. This frequency

  

Lett anterior dascending coronary artery

     

Bifurcation

    

oS &
f \ Sa

 

Stary IV

Stary I-Il

Stary III

Figure 3. Early Evolution of Spontaneous Atherosclerosis, Ac-
cording to the Classification of Stary.
Stary | lesions are defined by the presence of macrophages
or foam cells in the intima, Stary H lesions oy the addition
of smooth-muscle cells containing lipid droplets and by scat-
tered extracellular lipid, Stary Ill lesions by the appearance of
multiple extracellular lipid cores, and Stary IV lesions by an
atheroma. Adapted from Stary* with the permission of
the publisher.

of plaque fissures su
may contribute to it
advanced lesions. Indeed. analysis of coronary arter-
les in pauents whe died of ischemic heart disease‘!
showed a morpho! consistent with previously
healed fissures w various stages of thrombosis
and thrombus arganizauon, suggesting that most fis-
sures probably reseal and incorporate thrombus at the
same time but do net produce clinical symptoms. Fur-
ther evidence supporting the role of thrombosis and
thrombus incarporauion in plaque progression is pro-
vided by earlier pachoiogic studies by Roberts and
Buja”! and by Ridoiti and Hutchins.” These studies
revealed old, organized coronary thrombi that were
difficult to distinguisi: om atherosclerotic changes
seen in the arterial watl but that may have contributed
to the development of complicated atherosclerutic
plaques. A more recen: study by Falk“ in patients
with unstable angina loading to infarction or sudden
death revealed layered] thrombi overlying fissured
plaques in most cases. This finding suggested that re-
current episodes of caural chrombosis, rathe: than a
single, abrupt thrombotic event, led gradually to vas-
cular occlusion. Sniail fragments of thrombotic mate-
malin the distal intrinvocardial circulation suggested

   
 

sts that fissuring and healing
evalurion of early lesions to

.

 
  

 

  

ul

 

 

 

 

  
  

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

50612438