Vol. 3860 Na. t

Endothelium

ne | injury

Intima Type 1] injury
Media
Type il injury
Adventitia

MECTIANISMIS OF DISEASE — FUSTPER ETA

 

re

Proliferation
of Smooth-
Muscle Ceils

Lipid Accumulation
and Monocyte
Adhesion

Moderate No. Mild

Platelet Deposition
and Thrambosis

Maderate; cap-
sule surround-
ing atheroma
Extensive, with
organization of
thrombus

Moderate

Figure 1. Classification of Vascular Injury or Damage and Vascular Response.
See the text for details. Adapted from Ip et al.° with the permission of ire publisher.

scopical evolution of atherosclerosis. Presumably, as
a result of Type I injury of the endothelial cells duc
lo a disturbed blood flow or other, less defined factors,
isolated macrophages or foam cells in the intima were
the earliest sign of lipid retention (Stary I lesion, not
apparent macroscopically); these cells appear to
he blood monocytes containing oxidized serum lip-
id droplets," and Stary found them in 43 percent
of infants up to eight months of age, although they
regrussed subsequently. At puberty, a more substan-
tial number of macrophages or foam cells reappeared
in most children; such cells were accompanicd by
smooth-muscle cells also containing lipid droplets and
by minimal, seattered, extracellular lipid (Stary LI le-
ston, appearing macroscopically on Sudan LV staining
as a [lat or slightly raised fatty streak}. The lesion in
same children had progressed beyond this early stage
and showed multiple extracellular lipid cores (Starv
III lesion, appearing as a raised fatty streak) or an
atheroma, characterized by a single confluent extra-
cellnlar lipid core (Stary TV lesion).

The Stary UI and [FV lipid-rich lesions were not
surrounded by a fibrotic cap. However, in the third
decade of life, some of these lesions became predomi-
nantly fibromuscular, whereas others became fibrolip-
id and were characterized by a cap of smooth-muscle
cells and collagen surrounding multiple lipid cores or
a single lipid core (Stary V lesion). Some caps may
have formed slowly; however, when platelets and fi-
brin formed on the surface, presumably as a result
of Type Tf damage related to the release of toxic
products from macrophayes,”'? the caps may have
thickened quickly, due to thrombus-dependent fibro-
muscular organization. Indeed, recent pathologic re-
ports!" support Stary’s findings" by demonstrating
that the surface of overlying atherosclerotic plaques,
freshly obtained from coronary arteries, frequently
showed abnormalities ranging from focal defects to
‘ge arcas of frank denudation with platelet deposi-
tion, incocporation of microthrombi in diferent stages
of Abrotic organization, and accumulation of underly-
ing macrophages.

Reiteration of the current concepts of the cellular
and molecular interactions involved in these early
processes af spontaneous atherogenesis is bevond the

 

 

 

 

 

scope of this article and has been covered in recent
excellent reviews 2. Table 1b" 4 detailed
discussion of the possible role of atherogenic risk fac-
tors, such as hyperlipidemia, hypertension, smoking,
and genetic factors. anc: endothelial dystunction in the
early stages of spontaneous atherogenesis is also not
possible in this review.’

     

 

 

 

Progression of Atherosclerosis

The progression of early atherosclerotic lesions ta
chnically manifes rging atherosclerotic plaques.
such as those causing exertional angina, is often more
rapid in persons with coronary risk factors (Fig. 23. Tn
some plaques, progression is slow and probably a can-
anuation of the complex biologic process initiated by
chronic endothelia: injury or damage (Types I and II}
responsible for the arty lesions? and well described by
Ross.’ However, in most growing lesions progression
is probably rapid. Euierging evidence suggests that it
follows recurrent niivor fissures of the most fatty or
atheromatous plaques (Stary V lesions undergoing
Yype EE injury}, with subsequent thrombus forma-
tion and fibrodic orzunization.

Furthermore, a deep plaque fissure or ulceration
may lead to thrombote ceclusion and the acute coro-
nary syndromes. Accordingly, the following discussion
will concentrate on plaque disrupuion and thrombosis
— so-called complicated! plaques — as major conmib-
utors to corona \ progression and the acute
coronary syndromes. Specilically, we will dise
suring or disruption 3? an atheroscleratic plaque, with
resulting intraluminal chrombosis, which is one of the
principal mechanisins of growing plaques; fissuring or
disruption, which viso has a fundamental role in the
pathogenesis of the acute coronary syndromes; and
severe stenotic plaqice without subslandal disruption,
which can result ina complicated, often usymptomat-
ic, occlusive thromsaius.

 

en

 

 

  
 

 

  

  

  
  
 

 

 

{is-

 

 

 

Contribution of Plague Disruption and Thrombosis to
Progression

That coronary maral thrombosis and its fibrotic ar-
ganization conrribire to the atheroseleratic process
was suggested by vor. Rokitansky’ and later by Du-
guid.” However, Uiere is increasing evidence that nni-

 

  

c

50612437 —