REVIEW ARTICLES

 

MECHANISMS OF DISEASE

Franxun H, Epstern, M.D., Editor

 

THE PATHOGENESIS OF CORONARY
ARTERY DISEASE AND TILE ACUTE
CORONARY SYNDROMES

(First of Two Parts)

VaLeNnTIN Fuster, M.D., Pu.D.,

Lina Bapimon, Pu.D.,
Jean J. Bapaaon, Pu.D.,
AND James H. Crrserro, M.D,

[ the 19th century there were two major hypoth-
eses to explain the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis:
the “incrustation” hypothesis and the “lipid” hypoth-
esis. The incrustation hypathesis of von Rokitansky,!
proposed in 1852 and modified by Duguid,” suggested
that intimal thickening resulted from fibrin deposi-
lion, with subsequent organization by fibroblasts and
secondary lipid accumulation. The lipid hypothesis,
proposed by Virchow* in 1856, suggested that lipid in
the arterial wall represented a transduction of blood
lipid, which subsequently formed complexes with acid
mucopolysaccharides; lipid accumulated in arterial
walls because mechanisms of lipid deposition pre-
dominated over those of removal. The two hypotheses
arc now integrated into a more camplex “response-Lo-
injury” hypothesis, developed by Ross,* which repre-
sents the prevalent view of the initiation of athero-
sclerosis.

 

Vascucar Injury anp CORONARY ATHEROGENESIS

Vascular injury and thrombus formation are key
events in the origin and progression of atherosclerosis
and in the pathogenesis of the acute coronary syn-
dromes. We have proposed a pathophysiologic classi-
fication of vascular injury or damage that divides it
into three types (representing stages of increasing se-
verity), in order ta understand the pathogenesis of
various vascular diseases and formulate therapeutic
strategies (Fig. t).? Type I consists of functional alter-
ations of endothelial cells without substantial mor-
phologic changes; ‘l'ype I], endothelial denudation
and intimal damage with intact internal elastic lam-
ina; and Type II], endothelial denudation with dam-
age to both the intima and media,

In spontaneous atherosclerosis, the tenet is that
chronic musimal injury to the arterial endothelium is
caused mainly bya disturbance in the pattern of blood

From the Cardiac Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston (VF, LG. J.JB.), and the Mayo Clinic and Mayo Medical
School, Rochester, Minn. (.H.C.), Address reprint requests to Dr. Fuster at the
Cardiac Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, 32 Fruit St, Boston, MA 02114.

   

flow in certain parts of the arterial tree, such as bend-
ing points and areas near branching vessels.” In ex-
periments in animals, chronic mild endothelial injury
may also be potentiated by hypercholesterolemia, cir-
culating vasoactive aniines, immunocomplexes, infec-
tion, and chemical irritants in tobacco smoke. Local
variability in endothelial susceptibility to these factors
may be as important as flow disturbances in the local-
ization of minimal endothelial injury and atheroscle-
rosis. Such Type [ injury leads to the accumulation of
lipids and monocytes imacraphages), which is the ini-
ual predominant feature at these sites.

The release of toxic products by macrophages" pre-
sumably leads to Type {1 damage, characterized by
the adhesion of plaiclers.MEi! Macrophages and
platelets, together with the endothelium, may release
various growth factors (haz lead to the simultancous
migration and proliferation of smooth-musele cells, a
process that may contribute to the formation of either
a “fibrointimal lesion”! or, occasionally, an outer
capsule on a predominantly “lipid lesion.?*!?

A lipid lesion surrounled by a thin capsnle can be
easily disrupted, leading wo Type III damage with
thrombus formation."* When thrombi are small they
can become organized and contribute to the growth of
the atherosclerotic plaque.’''-! When thrombi are
large and occlusive, they can contribute to acute coro-
nary syndromes such as unstable angina, myocardial
infarction, and sudden ischemic death.'*"4 Ultimately,
they are partially lysed or become organized into a
chronic fibrotic occlusion

An accelerated versio: of this atherogenic process
appears to account for premature coronary disease in
patients undergoing heart transplantation, saphe-
nous-vein bypass grafting, or percutaneous translu-
minal coronary angioplasty.” In contrast co spontane-
ous atherosclerosis, an acute or subacute Type II or
If] vascular injury appears w be the critical initiating
event, followed by inrer platelet adherence and
thrombus formation, leading to the proliferation of
smooth-muscle cells. ‘Phus, Tvpe IL injury or damage
may occur in a saphenous-vein grafi in the first post-
operative year as a resuli of the surgical manipulation
and the relatively high intravascular pressure®; it may
also occur after heart transplantation as a result of
unmune and other types of injuries of the coronary
arteries.® Type IL injury or damage may also follow
coronary angioplasty, with mural chrombosis and sub-
sequent proliferation of smooth-muscle cells and fi-
brotic organization contcilsuting to restenosis.*

   

 

  

 

 

 
  

Morpuo.ocy or Coronary ATHEROSCLEROSIS
Early Lesions ‘

The sequential ultrastructural changes that occur in
spontaneous atheroselezosis, particularly in the early
lesion (Fig. 2}, have recently been clarified by Stary®
(Fig. 3). In an autopsy scudy of the coronary arteries
and aorta in young people, he described the micro-

 

 

 

Reprinted from the New England Journal of Medicine
326:242-250 (January 23), 1992

50612436