ATION

CONFIDENTIAL MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITO

(B&W) PROTECTED BY MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION PROTECTIVE ORDER

RESULTS

The rezults from the DS analyses showed that the paper recon from
Marlboro Menthol Lights 100’s did not contain any added phosphates
(DAP). This lack of added DAP resulted in a 80% reduction of
deoxyfructosazine in the paper recon from Marlboro Menthol Lights
100's as compared to the level in Marlboro KS. A concurrent decrease
in the lower molecular weight homologs of deoxyfructosazine was also
observed. The P&T analyses showed a similar (80-852) decrease in the
levels of acetamide and the PM compounds
(2-hydroxymethyl~(5&6)-methylpyrazines]. Also, the levels of the
volatile alkylpyrazines were lower. The data from both sets of
analyses support the fact that different paper recons were used in
Marlboro XS and Marlbora Menthol Lights 100's.

 

The data also gave some indication that the furnish used to make the
two paper recons may have been different, Currently, pyroglutamic
acid is thought to be a crudeindicator of burley tobacco. The
pyroglutamic acid level of the Marlboro XS paper recon was about 8X
the level found in the paper recon from Marlboro Menthol Lights
100's. This information suggestedsthat furnish for the Marlboro KS
paper recon was burley dominated while the furnish for the Marlboro
Menthol Lights 100's may have been flue-cured dominated. THis

information is preliminary and further-proof will be required to
confirm this theory.

Comparison of the paper and band cast racong,fron Martboro KS
cigarettes showed remarkable similarities. ie P&T data showed
comparable levels of acetamide, nicotine, Pytrole-2-aldehyde, 2M
compounds, myoamine, 5,6-dihydro-2-pyridone, beta-nicotyrine, and
2,3edipyridyl with the dark recon values being 10-30% higher than the

paper recon. The volatile alty) pyrazines were higher (2-4X) in the
dark recon.

CONCLUSIONS °

 

Philip Morris is now using twa types of paper recon. They use a DAP
(ammoniated) paper recon with Marlboro KS and a non-ammoniated* paper
Tecon at least in their new wentho! brand, Maribora Menthat Lights
100‘s. The furnish for the two paper recons is thought to be
different, but this has not been proven.

€.0-A/w

E. D. Alford

1359p o