TEXAS

SIGNS:

Texas law requires each person who sells tobacco products at retail (including through vending
machines) to post a sign in a location that is conspicuous to customers and employees and that is
close to the point of purchase, which states:

PURCHASING OR ATTEMPTING TO PURCHASE TOBACCO
PRODUCTS BY A MINOR UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW. SALE OR PROVISION OF
TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO A MINOR UNDER 18 YEARS OF
AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW. UPON CONVICTION, A
CLASS C MISDEMEANOR, INCLUDING A FINE OF UP TO
$500, MAY BE IMPOSED. VIOLATIONS MAY BE
REPORTED TO THE TEXAS COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE BY
CALLING 1-800-345-8647.

The sign must be at least 8’ inches wide and 14 inches long, and the lettering must be in at least
14-point type. For vending machines, the sign must be at least 3 inches wide and 7 inches long,
and the lettering must be in at least 10-point type. Signs bearing the required language are
available from the Comptroller of Public Accounts free of charge on request. Alternatively, a
retailer is permitted to develop its own sign provided the sign meets the requirements described
above for size, wording, and type-size. A sample of a proposed alternative sign may be
submitted to the Comptroller's office for review. Intentional failure to display the required sign
constitutes a Class C misdemeanor. [Tex. Health & Safety Code § 161.084, Tex. Admin. Code §
3,1202]}

OTHER:

Pursuant to his authority to adopt mules establishing the minimum requirements for approved
seller training programs, the Comptroller of Public Accounts has issued regulations setting forth
the requirements that a retailer must meet in order to be certified to provide employers and
employees with training in the requirements of state law applicable to the sale of tobacco
products. A retailer who wishes to become certified must apply for certification in writing. The
application must describe the curriculum, the course objectives, the academic content, the
learning activities, any audio-visual materials, written materials, and course evaluation forms. In
addition, the curriculum "should" include, at a minimum, instruction in the following areas: (1)
“tobacco-related health hazards,” including “statistical information regarding tobacco-related
health hazards as published by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration"; (2) federal and state
law, including statistics on tobacco usage by adults and minors, (3) detection of minors,
including "behaviors indicative of adolescence, including current clothing trends and fads, and
physical appearance preferences, according to generally recognized experts in the field": (4)
personal identification; (5) “second party sales"; and (6) refusing a sale. The instruction must be
at least two hours long, including breaks. A retailer must advise the comptroller's office in
writing of the date, time, and location of scheduled training classes at least five business days in

 

11391-0019