RJR CONFIDENTIAL

To: Kathleen Gallivan
Bill Proctor

From: — Ed Hardman

Subject: SIS Pricing System

Date: — July 17, 1995

This requests your help with an analysis (0 evaluate a tactical change to the execution of our pricing
strategies.

Baekground:

Jim Maguire has suggested we simplify the execution of the pricing strategies by determining a division-
wide discount value for our FP brands rather than the rep determining the discount valuc on a store by store
basis. In order to evaluate that tactical change, we want to simulate it first.

Methodology:
* — Sort stores by division, and class of trade within division (SM, CG, CO, and all other ex MB)

© For cach class of trade within division, calculate the average discount value needed to obtain a
$0,35/53.50 price gap vs Branded Savings across stores in which the rep has exccnted a discount.
Round the simulated discount value to the nearest nickel for packs and the nearest $0.50 for cartons, If
the rep has not executed a discount, do not include that store in the average and do not substitute an
average discount valuc for that store. The discount value for stores in which the rep has not exccuted a
discount should remain zero.

* For each store in cach class of trade/division combination, substitute the average discount value for the
discount value actually worked. (Again if the discount value is zero, it should remain zero.)
Recalculate the net price in cach store bascd on the simulated discount value.

* Create a dummy database just ke the real database but with simulated values for discounts and net
prices.

e¢ ~=Run our current grid store only reports against the dummy database to enable BIAD comparisons of the
simulated reporls vs the actual current reports. This will enable us to evaluate the impact of the tactical
change on the data and very importantly enable us to estimate the financial impact.

1 don’t know how this request compares (o priorities outside the pricing system. Ernic indicates that Jim

Maguire asks him about this daily. Therefore, Ernic has asked that we complete this analysis by the end of
the week,

Ed

Ed Hardman
Business Information and Analysis

cc Frank Beck/Bill Whitlatch/Jerry Moore/Peggy Fulk

€€cs8 ooses

RJRO00000050300531 9
70019 4299