“my

CONFIDENTIAL

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Richmond, Virginia
To: Dr. Jerry Whidby, Mr. Richard Heretick Date: April 20, 1994

From: Ty Murray Wy

Subject: 5401-Project Tomorrow Development Qrtly

 

This memo summarizes the efforts of the Development Team for the first quarter 1994. The
attached spreadsheet and graphs will summarize the current estimated manpower allocation and
budget status.

Process Engineering and Material Testing

Replaced nylon tracks and modified metal shims to eliminate dripping on MOD. Machine
runnability was greatly improved during a performance run conducted on 3/17/94.

Munising IV trials were conducted 3/7/94 to 3/23/94. Twenty-five banded papers were
produced, Papers made of Avicel with 0% CMC had processing problems. The matrix was
run with models containing Avicel with 4% and 8% CMC. Cigarettes made from these papers
are in support of the cigarette design model.

MOD trials were conducted on 4/5/94 to 4/7/94 (outside end of first quarter but included by
default ). The slurries consisted of 15 Eucalyptus and 2 Aspen wood pulps. A third Aspen
paper was not produced due to slurry refinement problems. Cigarettes made from these papers
are in support of the cigarette design model.

KC has indicated that they are considering 3% CMC, 6% PVOH, 3% Na Aiginate, and 3%
Na Alginate plus Acid as their industry samples for banded papers using the gravure process.
KC shipped bobbins on 13 April. The papers and cigarettes will begin evaluation/fabrication
starting May.

Worked diligently to get KC on board with project management. Both parties have agreed to
amonthly format. KC's manpower allocations continue to be a major concern. The goals and
objectives of this project will be greatly jeopardized if these resources are not in place by
April 22 ,1994,

Measurements and Methods Development

DOC CODE: P0622-5A01

Trials on the rewinder table indicate that band inspection results are largely independent of
rewinding speeds ( 67 to 295 m/min ). However, banded paper in which the slurry contained
20% calcium carbonate showed increased difficulty in band detection. DCS Corp. is working
to optimize the signal to noise ratio. PM will also continue to evaluate additional banded
paper configurations for detection anomalies.

The Fidus built PPM 400 ( used to measure permeability of cigarette papers from .5 to 50 +/-
.1 Coresta ) is working well . This instrument is currently used to verify paper permeability
during and after mill trials. Conversations with R&D and QA users with regards ta
modifications for commercialization are forthcoming.

TEELOLPSOS