CUNHIDENTIAL

DCS Corp. has submitted a proposal to KC to build a prototype, on paper machine, optical
band inspection system for $55k. The decision to fabricate the prototype is awaiting the July
94 selection of the preferred process.

Meetings were conducted with Engineering ( Chris Irving ) and QA ( Don Knudsen } to
discuss inspection philosophy and the impact of registration and / or optical detection of
cigarettes on the maker. Engineering is preparing a written estimate for an on maker

feasibility study.

j ‘abricati Testin:
Eleven machine-made models were evaluated by the Microstructures Investigations and
Technology group for band staining. These samples contained different levels of CaCO3 and /
or Klucel. Adding CaCO3 to the Avicel showed a reduction in band staining. Klucel
application on paper also reduced the band staining. Four banded samples were selected for
LP. testing based on the staining evaluation ( control banded paper, 10%CaCO3, 20%
CaCO3, 4% Klucel on control banded paper ).
Munising IV and MOD samples will be fabricated in late April and early May respectively.
These samples will be the last large set and will be used to determine the preferred process.

Continuous Improvement

Proj

The Development Team ran a series of test to improve weight selection at the maker and to
use the ringtipper to reduce the manual handling of dyed, banded cigarettes. Running the
AccuRay at +/- 20 and using the ringtipper vision system to detect the dyed bands can save as
much as 300 man-hours and 18 days of weight / band selection cycle time on a 37 sample test
(typical Mun IV matrix ) . The process will be carefully monitored to measure waste, ensure
machine performance, and sample integrity.

anage

Budget vs Actual : It is quite obvious that we have a problem with our budget. The first
quarter actual exceeded the allotted annual budget by $12,031. This is due to MOD
development and trials that were scheduled for 1993 but not performed until 1994. KC
accounted for over 90% of the first quarter expenditures which does not include a $120,000
MOD trial performed the second week of April. In addition, there will be many updates to
account for revised estimates and unscheduled work in the 2nd revised budget.

° Manpower Allocation : As of Mar 31st, we are utilizing 75% of our allocated manpower and

2DOC CODE: P0622-5A01 2

have completed 85% of our scheduled work. The spreadsheet shows utilizations as high as
151%. The 75% average utilization does not account for manpower timing ( allocations are
not spread evenly through out the year ).

Generally speaking, one should expect a requirement for an additional $1.75 million to
complete the scheduled work by December with a manpower allocation that may peak from
7.8 to 12 manyears.

1am working on 2nd revised

S6G6L9LPS06