APPENDIX

Consideration of Individual Filler types

Known water-insoluble components of tobacco include cellulose, lignin,
protein and Nic-Y, while water-insoluble bound. PsON (or an equivalent. NNK
precursor) and water-insoluble bound NNK are possible components as well.
Other than. possible: traces. of nitrate, the most probable: sources: of available
nitrogen. for nitxosating agent formation during smoking of extracted filler
are protein and atmospheric nitrogen.. On the other hand, water-solublie
components of tobacco include free nicotine, free minor alkaloid TSNA precur-
sors, nitrate, nitrite, and. Nic-X as known components, while water-soluble
bound. TSNA. precursors and. water-soluble bound! TSNA may exist as well. Normal
filler consists of both water-soluble components and water-insoluble. compo-
nents. Therefore, it is reasonable to conclude: that MS NNK from. the corre-
sponding feedstocks includes NNK derived from insoluble bound precursors as

discussed in the current hypothesis. as well as NNK transferred to MS from.

water~soluble preformed. NNK in the filler. Another source of MS: NNK may be
from nitrosation of water-soluble precursors such as pseudooxynicotine or Nr-
methylmyosmine .' ‘

The levels of MS NNK from BWs: prepared’ from the different filler types
have: been determined.' They follow the same order as: noted above (page: 2)
for bound. nicotine. This is logical given the agronomic conditions: and
curing methods. utilized for these tobacco types. In. the next three para-
graphs the three major tobacco types used) in American cigarettes are
discussed in relation to how they fit into the above hypothesis.

Burley tobacco is fertilized heavily’ throughout the growth of the

Plant, and the soil type normally used for Bu’ production retains. nitrogen

even when no fertilizer is added, so the plant sees nitrate at all times in.

heavy doses.'’ Organic nitrites are probably in ample supply in the mature
leaf, and there is also a. high concentration of nitrate, along with a propor-
tional level of nitrite,'* in the mature and cured) leaves. Air-curing is
employed, which is done under ambient conditions for 7-9 weeks. There is no
period of high temperature to kill enzymes; therefore, nitrate reductase,'”
as: welll as enzymes: that may. cause binding, of nicotine, are probably active
through at least. part of the curing time. TSNA extractable with DCM are
increasing throughout curing.'*' There is ample opportunity for oxidation of
both bound and free nicotine. The large amount of available nitrosating

agents provides an opportunity for the free and! bound TSNA precursors to be

nitrosated, possibly as soon as they. are: formed.

After Bu is cured, water extraction removes: nitrate, nitrite, free
alkaloids, free TSNA, and any water-soluble bound! alkaloids or TSNA. How-
ever, the extracted filler (e.g.,. BuBW) still contains Nic-yY; therefore (per
the current. hypothesis) insoluble bound PSON and/or bound NNK are also

present. When. smoked, bound. NNK is probably released and partially transfers

to MS. In addition, a portion of any bound PsON present. may be nitrosated by

S8Z80bEz02