PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

yom ae t

wy Ng ‘
MESiaw

. INTER-OFPFICE CORRESPONDENCE omg eta
TMS -
Richmond, Virginia SNe TERR
To: Ms.. R.. D., Kinser Date: 4 April 1991
From: A: H.. Warfield, S. A. Haut, C.. K. Keene, and W. R. Morgan

Subject: Current Theoretical Considerations on the: Origin of MS NNK from
Water-Washed Fillers and Basewebs

Hot water washing (as in the RL process) results: in base webs (BWs):
with greatly reduced MS NNN and NAT levels relative to: corresponding levels
from feedstock, but MS NNK levels are not reduced! by this process." The same
phenomenon occurs when: cut fliller is exhaustively washed with water at room
temperature.” The MS NNK delivered by water-washed fillers and BWs: has been
referred to as pyrosynthetic NNK. 7 ,

 

The pyrosynthetic formation off TSNA. in MS smoke has been studied for’
several years by Project 6908.° Although not included in official. documenta-
tion previously, the most common hypothesis used to explain the failure of
water extraction to remove the source of MS NNK was as follows: there is a
water-insoluble amine precursor remaining in the extracted filler which
reacts with a nitrosating agent, also derived from a water-insoluble source, LECEM ae
to: form NNK. The water-insoluble amine precursor undergoes pyrolytic clea-
vage,. either before or after nitrosation, and then the NNK transfers to MS.
Alternatively, bound nicotine itself may be nitrosated during smoking. None
of the above theories include any explanation of how or when. these MS NNK
Precursors are formed.. As. a result of recent discussions in Project 6908, a
new hypothesis has been advanced which encompasses. most of the previous
theories as well. as. some new. ideas. The current hypothesis. is stated. below:

Some of the nicotine present in tobacco becomes bound before curing is complete. Part of
the bound nicotine is oxidized to bound pseudooxynicotine (PsON) or a related NNK precursor,
and at least'a portion of this bound precursor is nitrosated during curing to yield bound
NNK, while a portion may remain in nitrosatable form. Water extraction does not remove ail
bound NNK or the remaining bound NNK precursors.. NNK is released from the bound form
and is also pyrosynthesized from bound NNK precursors (or from bound nicotine) during
smoking, and the total NNK released partially transfers as MS NNK or is decomposed ‘during
the smoking process.

eS2z.80Tecoe

In the remainder of this memo,. the derivation of the above: hypothesis
is described, and! plans that have been. made to substantiate: these concepts
are: briefly presented.