Any consideration of pyrosynthetic NNK formation from a water extracted
filler must start. with the: original feedstock. tobacco. The chemistry: which

leads to formation of the precursors in the tobacco being considered is

influenced by many, factors, which are determined during) the various: phases of

the particular agronomic and! curing conditions to which the tobacco was
subjected. It. isi necessary to consider the possible chemical. reactions

likely to take place during these: phases. In. the following two paragraphs
some of the pertinent chemistry of tobacco: alkaloids is reviewed as a back-
ground! for the derivation of the current hypothesis.

Tobacco contains several secondary amines which are direct precursors
for preformed (filler) TSNA. These include nornicotine,, anatabine, and
anabasine, which have: been. shown to be the precursors of preformed NNN, NAT,
and NAB, respectively.’ Free nicotine present in filler does not appear to

be the: direct precursor for edfither preformed NNK. or MS: NNK.’ However, nico-

tine can be oxildized with air to yield. many compounds, including pseudo-

oxynicotine (PSON).‘ PSON is the immediate secondary amine corresponding to

NNK, and may be the immediate precursor. of preformed NNK.. Any free TSNA
precursors (including PsON) present in filler and not nitrosated during
curing may be: nitrosated and released as TSNA during smoking. TSNA origina-
ting in. this manner can. be said! to result. from pyrosynthesiis. It. has been
observed that some of MS NNN and! NAT are formed pyrosynthetically fixrom direct
amine: precursors, especially in the case of Bu.’ The MS NNK from water-
extracted fillers does not. appear to be formed by direct. nitrosation of a
free secondary amine precursor to a. large extent.

Research carried out in Project 6908 during 1989 and 1990 has: demon-

Strated the existence in tobacco of at least two forms of bound nicotine,.
differing in. their water solubility. In both of these forms the alkaloid
moiety is bound to higher molecular weight species in such a manner as to be
releasable as free niicotine by hot aqueous alkali. solutions.’ It has been
suggested by Dr. Hempfling that this: binding could conceivably. be through the
pyridine nitrogen, in the same manner by which nicotinamide: ribonucleotide is
bound to the adenosine-5~monophosphate portion of NAD.” There are water-
soluble (Nic-X) and water-insoluble (Nic-¥) forms of bound nicotine, depend-

ing on the type of molecule to which the nicotine is bound. Both of these

general types: of bound! forms are insoluble in supercritical CO, and. dichloro-

methane (DCM), but free nicotine and preformed TSNA are extractable from.

filler by these solvents. Nic~X has: been. observed, to co-migrate with protein
when chromatographic separations were carried. out, suggesting that proteins
are involved in the binding in: some way.'® Although we have only limited and
inconclusive information on exactly when or how the binding occurs, it is
conceivable that an enzymatic process in: involved, either during, curing or
while the tobacco: is still. in. the field. There are. differences im the levels
of boundi nicotines: among the tobacco types.’ Generally, these compounds. occur
in. tobaccos: in the: order Bu>Br>or.

ESZSOPESOS