Lt oe

  

Since nicotine can be oxidized to PSON, and also occurs: in. tobacco as
bound: forms, it is possible that bound: nicotine in curing (or cured) filler
may be oxidized to bound PsON. It is also possible that, since TSNA precur-
sors can be: converted to TSNA during curing, bound TSNA precursors (such as
bound PsON) might be converted to: bound! TSNA during, curing. Nile-x and Nic-y

are believed to release: nicotine into MS. during smoking.'' Similarly, if
bound TSNA are present, then the corresponding free TSNA would be expected to
be pyrolytically released into MS smoke from the bound state. It is con-

ceivable that all the bound PSON may not be nitrosated to form bound NNK.
Therefore, another mechanism by which pyrosynthetic NNK could be derived is
by nitrosation of bound PsON during smoking. The direct nitrosation of bound
nicotine is an additional mechanism by which pyrosynthetic NNK could be
formed. Addition of free nicotine to filler has not resulted. in increases in
TSNA levels in MS smoke, presumably due to: distillation of the nicotine
before nitrosation. can occur. However, the release of nicotine from the
bound state could take place in. a temperature zone hotter than that which

causes. distillation of free nicotine. Based on solution reactions one: would.

expect to find increased levels of NNN in addition to NNK in MS smoke from
water-extracted fillers if a form of: nicotine itself was the direct precur-
sor.'* When microencapsulated nicotine (designed to: release: free: nicotine. at
either 280° or 405°C) was added to filler and the corresponding cigarettes
smoked,"* there were equal (~40-60%) increases in NNN,. NAT and. NNK. rather
than only NNK as is the case with. the water-extracted. fillers. The NNN and
NNK increases here were as expected based on the solution reactions, and the
NAT, increases were due to the presence of anatabine in the microencapsulated
nicotine. This also occurred when the solution reactions: were carried out.'?
The results obtained in the microencapsulated nicotine study strengthen the
argument. against the boundi nicotine nitrosation mechanism, but do not totally
eliminate it because the appropriateness of the model may be in question.

It. is conceivable that all three of the. above mechanisms. may be opera-
ting, but the extent of operation of any one probably depends on the specific
conditions accompanying the filler type undergoing combustion. These condi-
tions are most likely a result of the complete history of the tobacco under
consideration. In the: Appendix to this memo, the major types of tobacco are

discussed. with respect to the potential formation of water-insoluble NNK:

precursors.
Plans

Several studies are either in progress or planned for 1991 to address
some: of the questions raised by a consideration of the above hypothesis
concerning the origins: of MS NNK,"* Nic-xX is being isolated from CEL, and
will be tested for formation of MS. NNK under various situations, Nic~yY,
levels of various BW samples will be measured and the formation of MS NNK
from these samples will. be determined so. that possible relationships may be
established. Later attempts will be made. to isolate Nic-Y for similar
testing by rendering it water soluble. This) has been accomplished by:
partially degrading the protein to which it is attached using Nagarse Type

-3.

PSZ80PezOe