a nitrosating agent possibly derived from protein or from atmospheric N. It
is not known whether the bound precursor or bound NNK predominates; however,
it appears more likely that (because of the availability of nitrosating
agent) most of the bound NNK precursor is nitrosated during, curing rather
than during smoking. Therefore, the release of NNK from bound NNK appears
more plausible than pyrosynthesis. of NNK from bound precursors in the case of
water-extracted. Bu.

Bright (Br) tobacco is fertilized heavily during growth, and is
probably able to Synthesize: organic nitrosating agents (nitrite: esters, C+
nitrites, etc.) during this time.?* No further nitrate fertilizer is appliiied
after topping, and the sandy soil customarily utilized for bright tobacco
production leaches easily. As a result, neither the: ripe leaves nor the
cured plant material contain appreciable: nitrate or nitrite levels. Flue-
curing is employed, which includes a few days (the yellowing periiod). where
the temperature is low enough to: permit enzyme activity. Then the tempera-

ture is raised during the fixing period to complete: drying, and enzymes are

killed. Free TSNA are formed during the high temperature: period,’’ possibly
by interaction of the free precursors with organic nitrites. There is some
formation of insoluble bound nicotine (Nic-Y) in Br (~115-136 ppm), but not
as much as in Bu (~263-286 ppm).’' Nitrite levels are low because of. the low
nitrate levels and! the: lack of enzyme activity. It is possible that some of
the bound precursors that are present are nitrosated. during curing, but there
is probably less bound precursor relative to that in. Bu, and the extent. of
nitrosation of the bound precursor may be less than that in Bu. This would
lead to less releasable NNK, which would explain the fact that BrBW yields
only about half the levels of MS NNK as: found. for BuBW. However, there: is

considerable nitrosation of the free precursors in Br filler (possibly by

organic nitrosating agents) during the high temperature phases of the: curing

process.'’ Therefore, Br filler and. BrCEL both. contain. appreciable levels: of
preformed NNK. This is partially transferred to MS, and constitutes ~80% of
MS NNK from Br filler.’*? The: remainder of MS NNK from Br filler appears to
be formed! by some combination. of release from bound NNK and pyrosynthesi's

from bound. NNK precursors.

Most types of oriental (Or) tobacco contain very low levels: of
preformed. TSNA and deliver correspondingly low levels: of. MS TSNA. Or
tobaccos are not usually exposed! to artificial nitrate fertilizers during
growth. Frequently, animal waste: fertilizer is used, which provides: organic
nitxrogen,, some of which is broken down to. ionic nitrate by soil bacteria. In
addition, close spacing of the plants: is: used, and. light soils are
selected,’’ reducing the amount of fertilizer available to the plants. As a
result of these factors, levels of nitrate in the soil are seldom very high.
Therefore, Or. has little chance to form organic nitrosating agents during
plant growth as isi the case for Br, and there. is almost no nitrite in the
leaves during curing because of the low nitrate levels in the mature leaves.
Since there is no high temperature period during curing, there is enzyme
activity in the curing leaves, and! some formation of insoluble bound. nicotine
{~68-76 ppm) occurs.” Although alkaloid levels appear to be adequate to

-8-

zz

68Z280PE