INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Quarterly Report, July - September DATE: September 28, 1984

Chromatography Unit

TO: L. A. Lyerly FROM: K. L. Rush

ANALYTICAL SERVICE TECHNOLOGY
Ne

During the third quarter, a number of modifications and improvements were
made. Among these were:

New Carbonyls In Smoke Method (Ayers)

The new method developed by Analytical Methods has been put into routine
service. Two operators have been trained to perform the analyses. No
significant problems have been encountered and data have been provided for
a number of studies. Demand for these analyses has been moderate and is
expected to continue at about the same rate.

Low Level Menthol In Smoke (Summers)

Optimization of the current method for the determination of the menthol
content of cigarette smoke has expanded the working range to include a
lower detection limit. The interest in this lower level of detection has
has been the result of interest in cigarettes with menthol contents less
than 0.05%, as compared with normal levels of 0.40 to 1.25%. Analyses of
smoke from cigarettes with menthol contents of QO, .07, 11, and .27 mg/cig
gave deliveries of 0, .01, .02, and .04 ng/cig respectively. Tests are in
progress by the Sensory Unit to determine the least detectable level by
the smoking panelists. More tests may be requested; pending the results

of these tests.
Determination Of Wintergreen By Liquid Chromatography (Greene, Womble)

Modification of the liquid chromatographic method for the determination of
licorice content of tobacco products has provided the capability to
simultaneously determine the content of wintergreen in wet snuff ag well.
This eliminates a second sample preparation by distillation and both can
be quantitated from the same LC chromatogram. Also, since sample
preparation only requires an extraction, this procedure could be used on
site to monitor the production of wet snuff. Comparison of data from the
established GC method and the new LC method to determine the accuracy and
recovery has been completed, and the precision study is underway. All
data collected to date show very good agreement between the two methods,

and both produce valid results.

 696E  Lznos