-2-

a direct probing was offered. When this relationship was made
clear, the response was to keep both products as separate as
possible. This attitude obviously had a lot to do with present
negatives associated with current True. (Interestingly, negative
perceptions of True were more prevalent among male competitive
smokers although many females saw it in a negative light too.
This may help to explain why males were less positive towards
True Gold than females). The knowledge of it being a line
extension did not, however seem to lessen the initial
"willingness to try" the new product. This predisposition was
based on giving these“consumers a distinct image of the brand
initially (i.e. through advertising) and by giving it sufficient
opportunity to stand on its own at least through the early
stages. Its also important to note that New York respondents
were more likely to criticize current True than their
counterparts in Atlanta. This may be why reaction to True Goid
was somewhat less favorable in New York.

The True Gold concept was described as being "rich", "smooth",
"mila", "low in tar with good taste", "pure", "simple", "elegant
but simple” and "feminine", This latter description was most apt
to be voiced by males, particularly one group of male low tar
smokers.

The new product positioning evoked asscciations with an array of
lo-fi and low tar brands. The most popular being Benson and
Hedges, Tareyton, Virginia Slims, Merit, Vantage, Winston, Kent
and Marlboro Lights. Benson and Hedges seemed to stand out more
than the rest bgcause of its closeness in packaging color.

In terms of the various advertising shown, males seemed more
likely to relate to product information and user imagery while
females were more apt to be motivated by imagery alone, as
conveyed by packaging, color and a simple theme.

of the various approaches, four stood out as being worthy of
additional consideration. They included Personal Best -—— without
the premium price reference ("says all right things", "sincere",
"manufacturer is proud"), Born Rich ("rich means taste"), New
Generation ("like reference to tobacco leaves") and Boat
("feeling of wealth, relaxation"). Taking everything into
consideration, Personal Best was by far the most appealing toa
panelists.

Possible Limitations associated with these ads included an
upscale (only) skew for Born Rich, an upscale and masculine skew
for Boat, too much clutter for Whole New Generation and feminine
overtones for Personal Best. In addition, males were generaily
more positive than females toward having leaves in the ad.

The impressions obtained from exposure to the True Gold product
(PM Taste-Alike, cork tip) were generally positive. Product
descriptions encompassed "smooth", "rich", "good taste for a low
tar", “flavorful enough", “comparable to Merit", “nothing like a
True", The negatives included "harsh", "dry", "hard to draw”,

OSE THES