RUA SOON ayy

Subject:

To:

 

 

AL ©
C

e Memorandum

Alternate Approaches to Low-Sidestream Cigarettes Date: December 21, 1982

Dr. A. Rodgman From: D. E. Townsend
Dr. D. H. Piehl
Mr. J. D.Phillips

Several staff members in R&D have obtained information which is epplicable
to the development of low-sidestream cigarettes. I have prepared two
low-sidestream prototypes, one with information obtained by Dr. J. L. Harris
and the other with Harrie’ information combined with the use of “carbonized”
filler provided by Mr. J. White. Informal emoking suggeste that these
prototypes do not exhibit the harsh, irritating mainstream taste and irritating
sidestream sroma which ie common to the current CC~prototypes.

Dr. Harris has demonstrated (R&DM, 1982, No. 50; CIM, 1980, No. 27; CIM,
1977, No. 4) that the use of cigarette paper made without CaCO, filler results
in very low smolder rates and hence low sidestream deliveries.” The major
disadvantage is that due to the reduced smolder rate, the puff count is
extraordinarily high (“20-25 puff/cig). He suggested that unusual
configurations are required to obtain cigarettes with reasonable deliveries and
puff counts.

Prototype DET-111682-B was prepared with CaCO,-free cigarette paper
(supplied by Schweitzer) and 27.5mm long non air-diluted filters made with
2.9/44,000 tow. NOW 100 blend (high G-13 level) was used in an effort to
reduce the puff count to acceptable levels. The resulte of smoke analyses are
presented in Table 1. It is clear that as compared to WINSTON KS (SS 'tar'
“25mg/cig), substantial reductions (750%) in measured sidestream ‘tar’ were
achieved while satisfactory mainstream delivery and acceptable puff count were
obtained.

Prototype DET~111682-A was similar to that described above except that the
filler included 302 “carbonized” flue-cured stems (obtained from Mr. J. White).
Mr. White has demonstrated that the use of “carbonized” filler in @ blend
results in reduced sidestream deliveries. The results of smoke analyses for
this prototype are also presented in Table 1. A comparison of samples A and B
shows that the use of “carbonized” filler resulted in further sideatream 'tar'
reduction. The sidestream 'tar' analysis for prototype A must be regarded as
only an upper limit, however. Dr. Harris has demonstrated that the routine
method for measurement of sidestream ‘tar’ is in error for cigarettes which
contain “carbonized” filler. The actual 'tar' delivery is somewhat less than
that measured due to a higher extinction coefficient for SS ‘tar’ from
cigarettes with “carbonized” filler. Thus, all we can say at this point is
that the sidestream ‘tar’ reduction is in excess of ~ 60%,

The results of visible sidestream measurements are unavailable at this
time due to the load and priority of CC-prototypes. However, it is clear that
the visible sidestream is very low.

LOST 6S2TS

RJR} FORM 2422—Rev. 7/70