-5~

The pentane batch processor demonstrated the technical feasibility
of puffing tobacco in the unit using a cycle of evacuation, pressurizing
with pentane vapor, holding for an impregnation time, partial venting,
steaming, evacuation, and slow venting to atmospheric pressure. The’
mobility of pentane through the tobacco appears slower than that for FC~11.
The impregnation time was about twice that required for FC-11 (sixty minutes
vs. about 30 minutes).and an additional steaming period of 1.5 minutes was
required to assure residual pentane level less than 0.05 percent. A series
of laboratory tests confirmed these conclusions. The impregnation time
required at any given vapor pressure to yield equal filling capacity was
approximately twice as long when using pentane than when using FC~11l.° The
time required for residual pentane to drop from about one percent to 0.05
percent in 60% R.H. storage was about one day at 110°F., five days at 95°F.,
and greater than 15 days at 76°F,

The G-13 pentane batch processor was equipped with a liquid jet, a
"pot" and a tank, rather than a steam jet, hot tank, and cold tank as used
on the FC-11 batch processor, Originally, the "pot" water was circulated
with the tank water to cool the "pot" water, During initial evacuation,
“pot" water was used in the liquid jet, and the air was vented to the
atmosphere, During final evacuation, tank water was used to recover the
pentane vapor. An emulsion formed in the tank and transferred to the "pot",
resulting in pentane vapors being vented to the atmosphere. The "pot" water
was isolated from the tank to allow continued operation, Emulsion problems
in the tank became more severe. The tank was emptied, flushed, and refilled
with fresh pentane and water. A filter was installed in the vent line between
the impregnation chamber and the liquid jet to trap particulate matter, Dry
runs made without tobacco revealed pentane entrained in the water going to
the liquid jet. Once runs began with tobacco, emulsion reappeared. The
emulsion separated overnight to the extent. that one run per day could be made.
If a second run was attempted, the liquid jet would not pull an adequate
vacuum to cool and dry the tobacco. Further evaluation of operating parameters
of the pentane batch would require modification of the evacuation systen,
probably to a steam jet system.

To satisfy the current G-13 production requirements of the Company,
approximately twenty-five cycles per hour (fifty batch units) would be required,
based on 600 1b. batches, and two hour cycles. Loading and unloading units
would be labor intensive, The tremendous number of unit opening cycles exposes
the workers to potential danger at any time the pentane is not completely removed
from the chamber or the tobacco. Because of labor and safety considerations,
the concept of a belt system with remote control should be considered if pentane
investigations are to continue.

CBr borg pir

Oren H,. Wagner
Special Processes

/mm
xc: Mr. H. L. Speas, Jr. Mr. M. W. Wood Mr. Ds R. Nanney a
Mr. G. M. Stewart Mr. L. C,. Conrad 2
Mr. G. P. Moser” Dr. M. Stowe ST
Mr. D. R. Pugh Mr. Jack White by |
Mr. R. A. Merricks Mr. Rs C. Johnson S|
|