June 26, 1980

Mr. A. G. Moore

Alternate Puffing Methods: Pentane Batch Processor

Purpose: ’

To compare tobacco that was not puffed, tobacco processed through
the continuous FC~ll system, tobacco processed through the pentane batch
processor, and tobacco processed on the pentane porous belt, and to evaluate
the G-13 pentane batch processor.

‘

Summary:

G~13A from the same lot was processed through the continuous FC-11l
system at No. 601, through the pentane batch processor, and the pentane
porous belt, Cigarettes were made using ‘tobacco from each process and
unpuffed G-13A, and using the WINSTON LIGHT 84 blend containing the four
G-13A types -as- replacement for regular G-13A.

The cigarette weight reduction using the FC-11 processed tobacco was
greater than either pentane method, using 100 percent G-13A (44 vs. 38%).
Weight reduction of the tobacco rods using the blend was 7.4 percent: for
FC-11, 6.1 percent for batch, and 7.6 percent for the belt processed G-13A.
Draft was much higher for the FC~11 processed G-13A than for the pentane
processed tobacco. Chemical analyses showed higher nicotine loss and lower
sugar loss for the belt method than the FC-1l or batch. TPM, "Tar", and
nicotine in the smoke was lower for the FC-11 process than either pentane
method. Essential oils analyses indicated that the pentane batch process
was less severe, the FC-l1l1 process was intermediate, and the pentane belt
process was most severe. Smoking panel evaluation did not reveal superiority
for any process over the other.

The pentane batch processor requires two hours cycle time and pressures
approaching 90 psia to produce tobacco puffed, about equivalent to that
produced in the FC-11 continuous process. The pentane batch puffing system
is technically feasible; the liquid jet evacuation system does not appear to
be. The system would be labor intensive and present safety hazards.
Recommendations:

If pentane investigations continue:

1. Study the feasibility of a continuous belt system with remote control.

HZLt 9Tn0S