-3-

Physical, chemical, smoke, and smoking panel evaluations were obtained.
These results appear in Appendix B-2 thru B-6.

B. Discussion of Results +

1. Physical Tests

The weight reduction for 100 percent G-13 cigarettes was about

38 percent for either pentane method, and about 44 percent for the FC-11
continuous method; however, the draft increase was 265 percent for the
FC-11 method, and between 30 and 40 percent for either pentane method.
Sieve analyses before and after making showed decreased long strands and
increased fines for the FC-11 process, increased fines with the pentane
batch process, and increased long strands and decreased fines with the
pentane belt process. (See Appendix A-2)

. The weight reduction of the tobacco rods containing the
processed G-13A in WINSTON-LIGHT 84 blend ‘was 7.4 percent for FC-1ll,
6.1 percent for pentane batch, and 7.6 percent for the pentane belt. Rod
draft increased twelve percent using the FC-11 product, and decreased five
percent using either pentane product. Sieve analyses followed the same
trend as that shown for 100 percent G-13A tobacco. (See Appendix B-2)

2. Chemical Analyses

The processed G-13A showed about six percent nicotine loss for
the FC~-1l. and »pentane batch process. and about. fifteen percent nicotine loss
for the pentane belt process. Sugar loss was twelve percent for the FC-11
process, fourteen percent for the pentane batch, and two percent for the
pentane belt. (See Appendix A~2).. The evidence of these changes were not
strong in the chemical analyses of the blends including the processed tobacco
(See Appendix B-2).

 

3. Smoke Analyses

The TPM, nicotine, and FITC 'Tar' were lower in cigarettes
containing FC-11 processed G-13A than in the other cigarettes, possibly

due to the increased filtration effect of the higher draft of these cigarettes.
The pH of the smoke from cigarettes containing puffed G-13A was lower than —
from unpuffed (See Appendix A-4 and B-4).

4. Essential Oils

The following discussion of the essential oils analysis is taken

directly from RDM, 1980, No. 5 "The Effect of G-13 Processing on Tobacco
Flavor Composition", authors Robert A. Heckman and Fred N. Wendelboe.

The effects of pentane and Freon expansion of tobacco on 11
highly regarded flavorants/leaf constituents are shown in Table X. In
general, the highest levels of these 11 compounds were found in the batch
pentane~expanded sample, intermediate levels were found in the factory
G-13 sample (control), and the lowest levels were found in the belt pentane-
expanded sample. This suggests that belt processing was more severe than

9ZLZ 97NOS