LungCancer Called Big Killer
Of 2-Pack-a-Day Smokers

By PIERRE C. FRALEY survey. Careinoma of the lunr
Of The Bulletin Stajs laccounted for 12 per cent of all
Auantic City, June 6 -- The | 928ths in this group and was sec-

American Cancer Socicty's long- ond only Beroneny artery dis
range study of 188.000 men be- | “"srne death rate from carcinoma
tween the ages of 50 and 70 con. of the lung increases with the
tinues to indicate that lung can- lamount of cigarette smoking.
cer and cigarette smoking go
hand-in-hand. Less With Pipe Smokers

Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond, diree-j Lung cancer also appears to be
tor, and Dr. Daniel Horn, assist: { associated with pipe smoking but
ant director of statistical re ‘to a far lesser degree than with
search, reported today at the {cigarette smoking. There seems
104th annual meeting of the! to be no significant tieup between
American Medical Association on{cigar smoking and lung cancer.
a 2-month follow-up on the The rate of lung cancer was
smoking ‘habits and fate of menyhigh in cigarette smokers and low
in this age group. in non-smokers regardless of

The report is an extension of | whether they lived in a city or in
the ene at the AMA convention! the country. However, smoking
last year dealing with overalljhabits were not able to account
death rates that, caused tobacco} for all of the higher death rate
stocks to plummet a total of $77,-| from lung cancer in urban areas
000,000 in a few days. oo with rural areas.

During the months of the

Bare Among Non-Smokers | survey there were 152 deaths

Today's report. concentrating from earcinoma of the lung
mainly on the most widespread among the 108000 men who said
type of lung cancer, carcinoma,
cam: to these conclusions: ratio of 145 out of every 100,000.
Compares with a death rate

men who have never smoked.” it

is “an important cause of death
among men i “In this group the rate for men

smoking twoor more, .
packs of cigarettes a day." Iwith history of regular cigar-
There were 4430 men who Cle smoking was about 29 times

smoked two packs or more in the %8 high as the rate for men who
never smoked,” the doctors re-

ported.

THE EVENING BULLETIN

IndustryRaps |" sue"6,isss
Cancer Report | ov. "scoerar ars

Attacks Figures

New York, June 6—(UP)—
Timothy B. Hartnett, chairman
of the Tobacco Industry Research
Comittee, today urged smokers
mot to be “misled by sweeping
generalities” in a doctors’ report
on the relationship between

jat the start of the survay over
three years ago,” he sald.
Hartnett also charged that the
quertionnaire used by Drs. E
Cuyler Hammond and Daniel
Horn contained bias “so great as
to make questionable the validity
{ef any conclusions...” Same of
amoking and lung cancer. — § uhe questions were Yeading, Hort-
Hartnett, @hose organization] nett said, and use of the term
is conducting its own survey into| ‘heavy smoking” suggested excess
lung cancer, charged that the re-) which “doctors generally oppose
port releared today in Atlantic} «..in any human ectivity.
City “ignores important enviror-}| Laboratory rescareh during the
mental, georraphical, occupation-/ past year has failed to, provide
al, physical and emotional factors/ @ny proof that smoking causes
eflecting disease and longevity.” | lung cancer. Hartnett sald.

they smoked regularly. This is ai eg

“The rate for two-pack-a-day-
or-more cigarette smokers is over
90 times as high as the rate for
men who have never smoked,” the
report went on. “The rate for
men who have given up cigarette
smoking is 14 times as high as
the rate for men who have never
smoked but only half as high as
for men who were smoking less
than a pack of cigarettes a da)
at the time of que-tinnine.” |

In the light of these findings.
{ir doctors said, it seems prob-
able that giving up smoking even
after years of regular smoking
may result in a reduction in the
rivk of developing sung cancer.

However, the number of cases:
mow available for detailer! analy-*
sis is not great enough to state
that such a conclusion has been;
proved beyond reasonable doubt."
More evidence is needed, they’
sai

: Survey of Specialists
Tn another type of survey con-|
t

ducied by the American Cancer
Society, a majority of chest sur-
geons, cancer researchers and
Pathologists who were questiou-
ed said they believed heavy agar-
ette smoking may lead to lung
cancer.

Dr. Charles S. Cameron, medi-
1 and scientific director of the
ACS, reported on the results of a

PRG sued?
THE EVENING BULLETIN
Fniladelphia, Penna.
June 6, 1955

Sixty-three per cent of the
chest surgeons. 54 per cent of the
researchers and half of the path-
ologists checkei “yes” to the
statement that heavy smoking of
cigarettes may lead to lung can-
cer,

The “no's” ranged from four to
seven per cent. The remainder
were uncertain.

The \-o reports were presented
at a symposium on @ancer and
medicine at the opening session

{ of the AMA convention.

25,000 Are Attending
Some 13.000 doctors and 12,000
guests are scheduled to attend
the week-long series of meetings.
On Tuesday evening. Dr. Elmer

| Hess. of Erie, will be inaugurated

as president of the AMA. He suce
ceeds Dr. Walter B. Martin, of
Norfolk, Va.

Another highlight of the con-
vention will be a symposium on
the contro! of polio. Among the
experts scheduled to participate
are Dr. Jonas E. Salk, developer
of the polio vaccine; Dr. Leonard
A. Scheele, surgeon general of the
U. S. Public Health Service. and
Dr. Thomas Francis, Jr, of the
University of Michigan. who re-
ported on the success of the vac
Cine used in a mass test last year.

DETROIT FREE PRESS
Detroit, Michigan

June 7,

1955

DOCTORS FILE REPORT
Cancer Danger Seen

In Use of Whisky

Gpoelal to the Free Press

ATLANTIC CITY — Whisky-drinking

has been added to

smoking as a possible cause of cancer, three physicians
revealed here Monday in a report to the American Medical

Association.
The risk of tons greatiy
or voice
larynx, 2 cia, by
haa ema
With heavy drinking.

port on interviews in Sweden,
India an¢ the United States,

Ben more than siz

 

 

eamokers, they found,
ut the same risk as men
who amoke 16 to 34 cigarets

——ae
and
run

oking alone, or com-/dally,

From this and other studies,

opinion research authorities” con-

They sald the risk of cancer inj sidered that the poll was “biased,

tha larynx Increases with tho/nonscientific
Q@mount of elgarets amoked. Cigariahortcomings and

and filled with
defect”