To:

From:

Subject:

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

O. W. Dudley, III “ Date) August 13, 1991

rv

L. M. Cummings PON hte §
_
RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

Following is an update on what has transpired concerning the Records
Management Program in the Leaf Department since I last wrote to you in March.

On August 6, 1991, the second revised issue of the Leaf Department records
retention schedule received the endorsements required for finalization. All
copies of the two previously issued schedules should now be disposed. I was
recently informed by Jane Newchok that one additional modification was still
required. “However, since the requested change did not affect the maintenance
or retention of records, I would prefer to postpone revising your schedule
again until more critical changes are also needed. Our Records Management
legal counsel has been made aware of this issue and agrees.

The record category "Blend Sheets B1082" was placed under disposal suspension
by the Records Management legal counsel on July 23, 1991. These records have
been flagged in the Records Management data base and should not appear on any
disposal notices until the suspension has been released. I will let you know
when this occurs.

This month, 14 employees in the Leaf department were trained on the final
phase of the Records Management Program implementation. The diskettes to
capture their inventory data were distributed during this training session.
This month, I have started reporting their progress on this phase of
implementation. Attached is a chart showing the information that will be
reported monthly until this final phase of implementation has been completed.
I hope this will assist you in continuing to monitor the progress of the
Records Management Program implementation in the Leaf Department.

Reconciliation of inactive Leaf Department records in storage to your
approved departmental retention schedule continued throughout this reporting
period. I estimate this activity is about 802% complete. Based on the volume
of Leaf records to be addressed, we plan to complete your department in
October 1991. I will continue to inform you periodically of our progress.

The revised PM USA Records Management Manual has been approved by the Records
Management Joint Task Force and the President of Philip Morris USA. It will
be distributed soon from the Legal Department in New York. I will let you
and your departmental records coordinator know before this takes place.

"ONLY BEING THE BEST WILL KEEP US FIRST"

GESSOIPSOG