Documents concerning the National Association of Convenience
Stores ("NACS") and Philip Morris’ Retail Leaders and Masters
programs and/or the placement and display of cigarettes and
signage at retail.

Documents concerning smoker purchasing patterns, including,
but not limited to: purchasing patterns by retail outlet
types; purchasing patterns by pack or by carton; cigarette
category; brand loyalty; and brand switching (e.g., menthol v.
non-menthol, premium v. savings, switching between or among
different styles or packings of the same brands, how or why
smokers select brands, how or why smokers switch brands, and
the role of retailers in brand switching) .

Documents concerning Philip Morris’ Marlboro brand.

Documents concerning competition in the cigarette industry,
including, but not limited to: entry into the cigarette
market; market concentration; assessment of competitors
(including market share and predictions of market share);
assessment of competitive brands (including market share and
predictions of market share); share of cigarette sales by
cigarette brand, style or packing; price competition; ability
of competitors to change pricing; the importance of cigarette
business to retailers; and competition for retail space,
signage, and retailer acceptance of merchandising programs.

Documents concerning Lorillard’s Excel program and predecessor
programs, including, but not limited to: the development of
such programs; the effectiveness of such programs; the
relationship of such programs to the merchandising programs of
other cigarette makers; communications with retailers (e.g.,
Safeway, Inc.) concerning such programs; form contracts for
such programs; lists of retailers participating in such
programs; and retailers' acceptance of such programs.

Documents concerning point of sale advertising, including but
not limited to: the value of temporary signage; the value of
permanent signage; the value of price advertising; the value
of displays (temporary and permanent); and the impact of
Philip Morris' merchandising programs on Lorillard's ability
to use point of sale advertising.

Annual, semi-annual and/or quarterly business plans for the
sale of cigarettes at retail-

Documents discussing the competitive impact of the
restrictions on cigarette marketing, promotion and/or
advertising found in statutes, regulations, or the Master
Settlement Agreement .

94679098