As you know, the Company is already retaining broad
categories of documents in connection with pending smoking and health
litigation and departmental retention schedules. You may already be
retaining some or all of the documents that are potentially relevant
to this lawsuit and you should continue to do so. However, because
Philip Morris may be requesting documents that you are not currently
retaining, you should review the list of subjects carefully and
broaden your retention practices as necessary.

In identifying relevant records, you should construe the
term "document" broadly. It includes any written, recorded or
tangible graphic matter, or any other means of preserving thought,
expression or communication, including all non-identical copies,
drafts, worksheets, transcripts and proofs, whether handwritten,
typed, printed or otherwise created, including telephone slips and
logs, diaries, diary entries, calendars, reports, correspondence,
memoranda, interoffice and intraoffice memoranda, notes, notations,
videotapes, video and audio recordings, electronic recordings of any
kind (including data, electronic mail, computer diskettes or disks,
printouts, databases), and all other information stored in electronic
form.

The term "retailer," as used below, means any person or
entity that sells cigarettes at retail, including any retail outlet or
chain of retail outlets. The term "signage" means any material
displaying or communicating advertising, pricing or availability of
cigarettes inside or outside the premises of a retail outlet.

We ask that you segregate and retain documents dating from
January 1, 1992 until the present. If you locate any documents
discussing the Philip Morris Retail Masters program that pre-date
January 1, 1992, please segregate and retain those documents with the
other documents discussed below. You should retain the following:

*® Documents concerning Philip Morris’ Retail Leaders and Retail
Masters programs, including but not limited to: Lorillard’s,
retailers’, and other cigarette makers’ responses to such
programs; the impact on Lorillard of such programs;
communications with other cigarette makers or retailers
concerning such programs; and the effectiveness of such
programs .

¢ Documents concerning retail cigarette merchandising,
including, but not limited to: brand visibility; shelf space;
use of the back bar; use of the counter; temporary signage;
permanent signage; price advertising; temporary displays;
permanent displays; plan-o-grams; promotions advertising;
pricing; placement or display of cigarettes; placement or
display of signage; payments to retailers; and any denial of
payments to retailers by Lorillard or other cigarette makers.

SV679798