THE EVENING STAR
Washington, D.C.
January 28, 1963

Smokers Urged to Cut
Puffs Per Cigarette to 4

BUFFALO, NK. Y¥., Jan. 28 Data from the experiments at
(AP),—Cigarette smokers will Roswell Park Memorial Institute
run a lowered risk of lung show that all cigarette smokers
eancer if they will limit them- —regardless of amount or
seives to about four rapid method of smoking—run a risk
puffs right after lighting up, of lung cancer six times higher
the American Cancer Society than that of non-smokers, the
said today. society added.

That ts, the scolety said, if The tobacco industry has long

the amokera do not compen- contended that a cause-and-

sate by consuming more clg- effect relationship between

aretten than they would if they smoking and lung cancer has

observed «a more leisurely yet to be proved.

smoking pattern. Experiment With Mice
Tars Conomtrate A second experiment at

Three investigators, Mra. Roswell Park, the sovlety said,
Saxon Graham, Morton L indicates that cigarette smoke
Levin and Shisley Crouch, contains an element which
measurrd the amount of tars multipiies the potency of a
deposited by inhaled emoke as cancer-causing chemical moie
a cigarctte Is consumed. Ma- than $0-fold.
chines did the emcking and | Mice were miccted In the

hello with varying doscs . of
tar intake was measured at hi animal anesthette

consumption. which ls known to produce &

nf the butt became shorter. certain number of cancers
society , more and more

lars concentrated in the in- when given in an established

haled smoke. dose. +

The Investigators had de- Other mice were given not
termined through careful ob- only urethan but their throats
servation of smokers that three were painted five times a week
distinct patterns of cigatetté for six months with a solution
smoking exists, the of cigarette tars,

: The second group developed
1, Regular puffing—the I= many more lung cancers than
halation of smoke at regular in- aia tho first group, the soclety
tervals from beginning to end. joi4 and with the tars added

2. Early puffing—taking most ty was as though 82 times the
frags at the beginning andthen sciual dose of urethan had
tanering off.

F Late puffing—licht smok. sm siven to the Tile ne
“ad Uatil the butt has burned fitst supported in part by the
vert, then a number of pulls was undertaken by
ocfore putting the cicarette out Drs, Joseph A. Dipaglo and

Proves Sufest Paul R, Sheehe.

Of the three paltcins, fat
measurements haweri, early
puffing pioved to be the safest.
regular pulling was sccond and
late pulfing yielded the arcatest
amount of tars.

The safest thing to do Is nob
to smoke at all, the saciety xatd.

HTG003514

COURIER EXPRESS
Buffalo, N.Y.
December 19, 1962

Smoking Hazards Cited
Cigarette Machines

Qui at Cancer Institute

All cigarette vending machines|that tobacco tar tests at Roswe!
have ‘bean removed ot Roswell Park on fect tonfitenct 2d too

rh

tee, In a te
nounced the removal of the ma-| mort.
chines Tuesday In their statement, the doctors
De. Moore has long advocated | Gcted that many studies have
that clgareties are a major hewn Chat clearetis sinokers bave
cause in tbe rise of flung cancer. /20 Hability to develop
Dr, Levin was author of one of | lung cancer and this lability in-
the first reports in this country [creases as the onmber of ciga-
hepiicating heavy smoking as a |Tetics smoked each day increases,
porsiblo canes of bing cancer. | Tvs change in the lunes ard
te

The Cigarette Cancer Commit-|bronchi is related to the amount
tee at the Institute, a branch oflof smote and smoke condensat
the State Dept. cf Health, last Au-[ which contacts the ‘susceptible’
gust after studles showed the} tissues each day.
cancer-producitg effects of ciga-] The hospital's commitice Is
In since of tae cigarette ma- {tion in schools. the aan
chines at the Buffafo institution, | smoking. = vera of
signs have been substituted read-

" Park Memorial Insti-
tute Is dedicated to the detection,
trestment prevention of can-
cer.

“To help prefect and remind

yon of tbe hasards of

smoking, all cigarette
«machines have been

from the premises.

“Research at Roswell Park Me-
mortal Institute has proved con-
clusively thet cigarette smoking
is a major cause of lung cancer.
Tt also increases diseases of the

Prodnced
The doctors slated , Tuesday