yo Cpe fee

PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

To: CAWC Participants oar: December 14, 1995
FROM: Steven C. Parrish
SUBJECT: Conference Follow-Up

As I mentioned at the Corporate Affairs World Conference, I] want to
follow-up with all participants on a number of issues.

First of all, I would like to thank everyone for attending and to
convey a special thanks to those of you who participated in
presentations or panel discussions or led the issues groups. I believe
everyone who attended felt challenged and I trust a good time was
had by all.

However, we know there is always room for improvement for the
next conference, and I suggested two ways in my closing remarks - a
stronger international focus and a site outside North America. But |
want to hear more from each of you. To that end, I have attached a
questionnaire for your comments. Please give us your frank and
honest opinion and return it to Hector Irastorza in the Washington,
D.C. office by January 15, 1996. It will be important when planning
future conferences.

Also, as promised, attached are the final reports of each of the issues
discussion groups and Jim Lindheim’s summary of "key learnings”
from the three panel presentations. I hope you will find them of
interest. Please share them with your colleagues in your
departments, especially those who were unable to attend the
conference. If you have any comments on any particular issue,
please let me know.

For those of you who are interested in receiving copies of any of the
internal presentations, please contact Peter Mirabella in the New
York Office and he will make every effort to comply with your
request. However, please be aware that although our executives
were most pleased to be with us, they are somewhat reluctant to
distribute copies of their speeches because of the confidentiality and
sensitivity of some of the information in their presentations. Where
that is the case, we are looking to see if edited versions could be
made available.

SETS BOF OR