7.

 

2

Each participating laboratory will weight and pressure

drop the cigarettes using their normal methods. R.R. Baker, R.R. Baker
“9.M. Gonzalez and G. Scherer will indicate the range of J.M. Gonzalez
_ weight and pressure drop in the samples they send. G. Scherer

. 8.
-. and normal operating conditions. to :

(a) simultaneously measure sidestream and mainstream yields

9,

- (a) Make 3 replicate measurements of each cigarette sample

(b) Measure or estimate the linear air velocity in their

10.

ll.

(b) measure mainstream yields of particulate matter, nicotine

The following will be undertaken by each participating

Each participating laboratory will use its own methodology

of particulate matter, nicotine and carbon monoxide.

“and. carbon monoxide under standard conditions
(i.e. without sidestream equipment)

laboratory -:

 

sidestream equipment 1 cm axially in front of an unlit

cigarette.
~ (C.R. Green will supply details of anenometers) C.R. Green

‘(c) Particulate matter will be that measured on one

Cambridge pad + that deposited on walls of the apparatus.
That deposited on walls will be estimated by both

- UV determination at 310 nm
(see BAT method)

and - nicotine/TPM ratio method
(see Rothmans method)

‘Each laboratory will state fraction of particulate matter
that is deposited for each cigarette sample.

(d) Total sidestream nicotine will be found using a second
trap (each laboratory to use best available method).
Fraction of nicotine passing through the Cambridge pad
will be stated for each cigarette sample. -

(e) Sidestream carbon monoxide will be determined by best
available method.

It was agreed that results fron this co-operative study would
be sent to C.R. Green and will be discussed at the next meet-
ing of the Task Force. This will be in England on Thursday
16th June 1988 (i.e. just after the Ambient Air Quality Inter-
national Conference, London, 13th-15th June 1988).

The following were deferred to the next meeting :

(a) Whether the CORESTA recommended method should be an open
or closed system.

G£28 C290S

(b) How accurately the mainstream deliveries of particulate
matter, nicotine, carbon monoxide and puff number should
be maintained in the recommended method.

 

tan rc enn ee re net