ce ek vert ee ee

d . CORESTA SS AND ETS TASK FORCE ;
SIDESTREAM ANALYTICAL PROCEDURES

Ben; “ata
im! CORY,

 

Co-ordinator of Task Force: C.R. Green (RJR, USA)
Summary written by: RoR. Baker (BAT, UK)

. J. A- literature review on Sidestream Methodology was given by
” pow. Jenkins (PM, USA), followed by presentations on specific
-methods by C.J. Proctor (BAT,UK), E.D. John (Rothmans, UK),
C.M. Mattina (Kimberley-Clark, USA), JH. Bell (Lorillard, USA)
and D.W. Eaker (RJR, USA).

“2. In general discussion, it was agreed to define sidestream smoke
.as al} the smoke generated by a cigarette that is not mainstream

3. It was also agreed to refer to sidestream methods as “analytical
: methods for sidestream smoke determination” and not to imply in
_any way that this is related to ETS.

It was agreed to define sidestream particulate matter-water-

nicotine free (PMWNF) as that collected on a Cambridge pad and

. deposited in the apparatus using the minimum distance between
“the cigarette and pad that would ensure the temperature 1 cm
on the smoke side of the pad was 22 + 20.

ae
°

5; It was decided to do an inter-laboratory comparison of methods. All
Each person wishing to participate in this co-operative study participating
should write to C.R. Green stating : delegates

(a) his willingness to participate
(b) the number of each type of cigarette he will require

& (c) any information he may have on anenometers or other air
velocity measurement methods (see 9(b) below).

6. The following cigarettes will be used in the co-operative study:

(a) KIR4F (University of Kentucky reference cigarette)

(b). C-20 (20% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)
(c) C-50 (50% ventilated German Verband reference cigarette)
(d) UK flue-cured cigarette

(e) Dark air-cured cigarette

(a) [$30 per thousand] can be obtained by writing to:
Ms Bettye Vice, Purchasing Officer,

Purchasing Tobacco and Health Research Institute
Cooper & Alumni Drives

University of Kentucky

Lexington, Ky 40546, (tel: 606 257 2660)

G. Scherer (Verband) will] supply (b) and (c) to participants. G. Scherer
R.R. Baker (BAT,UK) will supply (d) R.R. Baker
J.M. Gonzalez (Tabacalera, S.A.,) will supply (e) J.M. Gonzale

g¢23 £2905

(C.R. Green will let G. Scherer, R.R. Baker and J.M. Gonzalez C.R. Green
know who is participating in the co-operative study, and how
many cigarettes each participant requires).