GO. Watson -4-

April 27, 1972

c. WINSTON Box "Photo Cube" Promotion Evaluation - The
photo cube would be offered free at the retailers'
counter when the five packs of WINSTON Box inside the

cube are purchased by the consumer. The offer would
probably be limited to geographical areas with a high
crush-proof box sales potential. No media support is

currently planned. The timing of this promotion has
yet to be determined.

The objectives of this promotion will be:

1. To gain distribution for WINSTON Box

2. To generate greater awareness and trial
of WINSTON box

3. To build greater sales of WINSTON Box

Research would include sales analysis, competitive
trial and conversion to WINSTON box, and a measure of
the increases in distribution of the box style. The
Brand Group expressed an interest in knowing how this
promotion would be expected to perform if it was run
nationally. This may require the selection of some
test markets other than those which currently show
high potential for the crush proof box style.

Media Promotions - At the moment, none of these appear to be }

set, but the Brand expects to run two of them during 1972. 4 a

The most likely alternatives seem to be: at

a. The "How Good It Is" jigsaw puzzle, a self-liquidator. <3
The objective of this promotion will be enhancement of
WINSTON's basic copy strategy.

b. The WINSTON "Knock Around" Pants or Jeans Offer - This
will be a self-liquidator. It's primarily objective is
to reinforce the attention-getting power of the advertising.
Its secondary objective is promotional; that is, to enhance
the visibility of the Brand name, particularly among young
adults.

c. The W. C. Fields Playing Cards are a third possibility
for media promotion as a self~-liquidator.

When the Brand Group decides whether or not to go with

any of the media promotion alternatives, MRD will be informed
by Ed Brown giving sufficient time to permit arrangements

for research on the advertising value of each promotion.
Recall testing would be used to relate these ads to non-
promotional WINSTON ads.

a
o
~
ua
N
a

£

oO
a