om

‘roc. Natl Acad Sc: USA
‘Gh 94, pp. 1ORAS- 1088S. September 1997
stedical Sciences

cece aeemmepessimeeaeiae = RO ea we 6 eS A

LYSO

Oncogenic transformation induced by the Qin protein is
correlated with transcriptional repression

(oncogenicity/ winged helix protein)

Sian Li, HOLGER THURMT, Hwal WEN CHANG®, JASON S. LACOVONI®. AND PETER K. VOGT =

Departmen: of Molecular and Experimental Medicine. The Seripps
Unrversiat Bertin. institut fur Beochemee, Theeisliee 63. 14195, Berin. Germany

Contmibuted by Peter K. Vogt, duty 30, 1997

ABSTRACT The retroviral oncogene gia codes for a pro-
tein that belongs to the family of the winged helix transcrip-
tion factors. The viral Qin protein, v-Qin, differs from its
‘ellular counterpart, ¢-Qin, by functioning as a stronger
.ranscriptional repressor and a more efficient inducer of
tumors. This observation suggests that repression may be
important in tumorigenesis. To test this possibility, chimeric
proteins were constructed in which the Qin DNA-binding
domain was fused to either a strong repressor domain (derived
trom the Drosophila Engrailed proteia) or 8 strong activator
domain (from the herpes simplex virus VP16 protein). The
chimeric transcriptional repressor, Qin-Engrailed, trans-
formed chicken embryo fibroblasts in culture and induced
.arcomas in young chickens. The chimeric activator, Qin-
VP16. failed to transform cells in vitro or in vivo and caused
cellular resistance to oncogenic transformation by Qin. These
data support the conclusion that the Qin protein induces
oncogenic transformation by repressing the transcription of
genes which function as negative growth reguiators or tumor
suppressors.

es
The oncogene qin was isolated as a cell-derived insert in the
senome of avian retrovirus ASV31, a virus that induces
neoplastic transformation in cell culture and sarcomas in
young chickens. The viral gin gene (v-qut) is the oncogenic
determinant of ASV31. The v-qun gene differs from us cellular
counterpart c-gin by an N-terminal leader sequence. several aa
substitutions and a C-terminal deletion (1. 2). The Qifi proteins
(v-Qin and c-Qin) belong to the family of winged helix
transcription factors (2. 3). More than fony members of this
family have been described m recent years, they are found m
veast. Drosophils, Caenorhabditis elegans, Xenopus, rodents,
and humans (4. 5). The functions of winged helix proteins are
related to embryonal development and tissue differentiation:
these proteins are expressed in a highly tissue-specific manner
(6). A familiar example for winged helix-controlied differen-
tation is the nude mouse whose phenotype results from a
defect in the whn gene (7).

The ¢-Qin protein is the avian homolog of the mammalian
brain factor | (BF-1); expression of this protein is restricted to
the telencephalon, the nasal half of the retina. and the optic
stalk (1, B). A null mutation of the mouse BF] gene leads to
death at birth accompanied by dramatic size reduction of the
cerebral hemispheres (9). Some genes coding for winged helix
proteins have oncogenic potential (3. 10, 11). Viral gen induces
neoplastic transformation, presumably due to aberrant tran-
scriptional regulation and ectopic expression. in transient
transfection, the Qin proteins act as transcriptional repressors.
suggesting that this activity may play & role in oncogenicity (2).

a

The publication costs of this article were defrayed m peri by page charge
payment. This aricie must therefore be hereby marked “edvertusemen:” in
accordance with 1# U.S.C. §1734 solely to indicate this fact.

© 1997 by The Nauwnsi Academy of Scrences 0027-8424 /97 /9410885-4$2.00/0
PNAS os availedic oniine ai hitp://www.pnas.org.

1N8RS

PUBLICATIONS

Reagarch Insitute. 10550 North Torres Pines Rad, La dota CT a bas

To examine this possibility. we constructed chimeric transcrip-
tion factors containing the Qin DNA-binding motif and het-
erologous reguiatory domains of either the Drosopiula En-
grailed or herpes simplex virus VP16 proteins. The properties
of these chimeric proteins support the conclusion that tran-
scriptional repression is a requirement far neoplastic transfor-
mation induced by Qin.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Plasmid Construction. To create Qin-Engrailed (En) chi-
meras. the PCR-amplified fragments of engratied (amino acids
2-298) (12) and v-gin (amino acids 1-251} (3) or chicken c-gia
(amino acids 1-243) (1) were cloned consecutively into the
HindI-Xbal or BamH-Hindill sites of the same pBK/RSV
vector (Stratagene). Oligonucleotide primers designed for
PCR included BamHI. HindHl. and Xbal restriction sites
allowing im-frame cloning. All DNA fragments derived from
PCR amplification were sequenced using primers internal to
the gut or engratied coding sequences or T3 and T7 primers.
Oin-VP16 chimeras were constructed by exchanging an Espl-
EcoRI fragment of either c-gen or v-qur with a BumHI-EcoR!
fragment of plasmid 597.1 coding for the transactivation
domain of the VP16 protein (13). The cohesive ends generated
by BamHI or Espl digestion were filled in wath Klenow
polymerase. The resultant Qin-VP16 and Qin-En plasmids
were cleaved with either BamHI-EcoRI| or BamHI-Cial for
cloning into the retroviral expression vector RCAS (14) to
yield RCAS-Qin-En and RCAS-Qin-VP 16. Transfection of
chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEF) with the RCAS vectors
leads to the production of infectious RCAS retroviruses that
replicate and express the cloned insert. The reciprocal recom-
binants between v-gin and c-qui. VC and CV. have been
described (2).

Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assays. Circular pBK/ RSV
plasmids with inserts coding for c-Qin. v-Qin. c-Qin-En.
v-Qin-En, c-Qin-VP16. or v-Qin-VP1I6 were used as tem-
plates for in vitro transiation in a transcription and translation
coupled system according to the manufacturer's protocol
(Pfomega). Wheat germ lysates containing translated proteins
were used in electrophoretic mobility shift assays as described
(2). The relative amounts of translated proteins were estimated
by labeling the proteins with {“Sjmethionine (40 4Ci in 50 wl
reaction volume: | Ci = 37 GBq) followed by SDS/PAGE and
autoradiography.

Transfection and Focus Assays. Assavs for transcriptional
regulation in CEF cultures were carried oul using transicnt
transfection with the calcium phosphate precipitation method
(15). CEF were plated 20 h before transfection at a density of
5 x 10° cells per 35-mm dish in DMEM. The use of the

mr
Abbreviations: BF-t. brain factor 1. En. Engriated: CEF. chicken
embryo fibroblasts.

STo whom repent requests should be addressed. c-mail pkvogi
scripps.cdu.

058563

ve