agen

10886 Medical Sciences: Li er ai.

pBK/RSV expression vectors and the p6BCtuc reporter plas-
mids in these transfections has been described (2). Cells were
harvested for luciferase assays at 40 h postrransfection. Assays
for oncogenic transformation were initiated by stable trans-
fection with the RCAS constructs following the dimethyi
sulfoxide-polybrene method (16). Transfected cultures were
overlaid with nutrient agar and incubated at 37°C until foci of
transformed celis developed.

Western Biot Analysis, Immunofiuorescence, and Tumor
Formation. The protocols for Western blot analysis and im-
munofiuorescent staining have been described (17, 18). Tu-
morigenicity was tested in 1-day-old Spafas chicks (Storrs, CT)
that were injected subcutaneously in the wing web with 1 X 10°
transfected cells serving as source of infectious retrovirus.
Chicks were examined weekly for 6-7 weeks.

RESULTS

v-Qin Is a Stronger Transcriptional Repressor Than ¢-Qin
and Shows Enhanced Oncogenicity. The v-Qin protein shows
a reduced DNA-binding activity compared with c-Qin. This
difference maps to an amino acid substitution (Gly —> Asp)
within the winged helix DNA-binding motif (2). Overexpres-
sion of v-Qin or of c-Qin in CEF induced similar transformed
celi morphology and produced comparable numbers of neo-
plastic foci (Table 1). However, the RCAS-v-Qin retrovirus
was significantly more oncogenic in chickens than the RCAS-
c-Qin virus, although both viruses expressed their respective
inserts at similar levels. v-Qin induced tumors in almost all
injected birds within 2-3 weeks, whereas c-Qin seldom led to
tumor formation and then only after a latent period of 6-7
weeks (Tabie |). Even these rare and delayed tumors might not
have been caused by wild-type c-Qin, but by 2 mutant that
could have arisen during the extended course of RCAS-c-Qin
replication. The difference in oncogenicity between c-Qin and
v-Qin was correlated with other properties of the two proteins.
Previous studies have shown that v-Qin acts as a stronger
repressor than c-Qin on the p6BCluc reporter (2). Results with
recombinants between v-gin and c-gin suggest that tumonge-
nicity and enhanced transcriptional repression are linked to
each other and to the amino acid substitution in the winged
helix domain of v-qin (Table 1) (2). These data support a role
of transcriptional repression in oncogenic transformation by
gin.

Constrection of Qin-En and Qin-VP16 Chimeras. The
relationship between transcriptional repression and oncogenic
potential was explored with chimeras between gin and Dro-
sophita engrailed or herpes simplex virus VP16. The Qin-En

 

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sct. USA 94 (19971

chimeric proteins consisted of N-terminal sequences derived
from either c-Qin or v-Qin including the winged helix DN.
binding motif. These were fused to the repressor domain of
Drosophila Engrailed protein (19. 20) (Fig. 14). The Qin-
VP16 chimeras were generated by linking the same N-terminai
Qin sequences to the acidic transactivation domain of the
herpes simplex virus protern VP16 (21) (Fig. 1.4). in both types
of chimeras, the major transenptional repressor region of the
Qin protein was deleted. Because the specificity of DNA
binding is determined by the winged helix motif (2, 8), these
chimeric proteins are designed to be either negative or positive
regulators operating through Qin-binding sequences.

Expression levels of the RCAS-Qin-En and RCAS-Qi.,-
VP16 vectors were measured by Western biot analysis. Nuclear
extracts were prepared from transfected CEF; proteins were
separated by PAGE, blotted, and probed with a polycional
antibody against full-length c-Qin (Fig. 18). The chimeras were
stably expressed, although accumulating leveis of Qin-VP16
were lower than those of Qin-En (Fig. 18, lane 5, the 41-kDa
band). Gel mobility shift assays were performed with the
fusion proteins translated in virro using a iabeled B2 oligon:-
cleotide (2) or the optimal Qin-binding sequence as det
mined by PCR selection (TGTAAACAAA) (J.L.. unpub-
lished data). The chimeric proteins c-Qin-En and c-Qin-VP 16
bound DNA as did c-Qin (Fig. 24). Binding of the proteins to
the labeled oligonucleotide could be specifically competed
with cold oligonucleotide. In contrast, protem-DNA com-
plexes formed by v-Qin and v-Qin chimeras were barely
detectable (data not shown) due to the weak affinity of v-Qin
for DNA (2).

Qin Chimeras That Repress Transcription Are Oncogen.
Chimeras That Activate Transcription Inhibit Oncogenesis.
The transcriptional regulatory properties of the Qin chimeras
were examined in transient transfection assays using the pBK/
RSV expression vector and p6BCluc as a reporter. In addition
to v-Qin, which repressed the background level of transcription
seen with the pBK/RSV vector alone, repression was also
observed with the Qin-En chimeras (Fig. 28). Qin-VP16
functioned as an activator of transcription. If the p6BCluc was
replaced by pCMX, a reporter without Qin-binding sites, on
minimal changes in the background luciferase activity wer.
observed with any of the chimeras, suggesting that repression
and activation by these proteins is DNA sequence-specific.
Oncogenic transformation by the Qin chimeras was tested in
CEF using the RCAS expression vector constructs (13). Both
RCAS-c-Qin-En and RCAS-v-Qin-En (Fig. 34) induced
transformed cell foci indistinguishable from those induced by
v-Qin. However, the process of focus formation by the chime-

Table 1. Transcriptional regulation and oncogenicity of Qin constructs

RCAS Transcriptional
construct regulation”
v-Qin 1.8
¢-Qin 11.2
cvs 32
vat 17.3
RCAS + v-Oin! ND
v-Oin- WPI + v-Oint ND

Tumongennity
Focus formation Latent period,

in vitrot Incidence? weeks

34 10/11 2-6

35 3/12 6-7

2 3/3 35

30 1/4 6-7
$.0 x 108 ND ND
44x 104 ND ND

er eR
*Relatwve luciferase activity expressed as percent of RCAS control. Data are from a representative

expernment.

tNumber of foci per 50 ng DNA transfected (constructs v-Qin, c-Qin. CV. amd VC), and transforming
uter of RCAS-v-Oin vinas expressed in focus forming units/m! (constructs RCAS + ¥-Qin and
v-Oin-VP16 + v-Qin). Data are from a representative experiment.

tBirds with tumors over birds injected.

4#Recommnants beiween v-grt and c-qur (see Fig. 1.4) (2).
ICEF were first transfected with RCAS ur vQ-VP16-RCAS coding for viral envelope protein of subgroup
A. and after | week they were challenged with v-Qin-RCAS virus of envelope subgroup B. ND. not

determined.

PUBLICATIONS

058564

% %

Scr
tec
the
do

do

We
e-€
(la
Ly
ait
Q:

co:

ee