Medica! Sciences: Li es al.

 

12345
82- =
29-

ae:
ears

Fic. 1. Construction and expression of Qin chimeric proteins. (4)
Schematic structures of Qin (vQ and cQ), reciprocal v-Qin-c-Qin
recombinants, and Qin chimeras. v-Qin has an 6-as leader (black) at
the N terminus and ss truncated at the C terminus. The winged helix
domain of v-Qin (dark gray) differs from that of c-Qin (light gray) by
an amino acid substitution (G — D). Diagonal shading: repressor
domain of Engraiied. Wave shading: acuvator domain of VP16. (8)
Western blot analysis. CEF transfected with RCAS (lane 2), RCAS-
c-Qin-En (lane 3), RCAS-v-Qin-En (lane 4), and RCAS-v-Qin-VP16
(lane 5) were tysed by boiling in 1X SDS containing sample buffer.
Lysates were analyzed by SDS/PAGE followed by blotting onto
nitrocellulose membranes, which were probed subsequently with a
Qin-specific antibody at a dilution of 1:200 and alkaline phosphatase-
conjugated anti-rabbit serum at a dilution of 1:2000. Mock-infected
CEF (iane 1) were also inciuded. The moiecuiar weight markers are
indicated on the left in kDa.

ras was slower than with RCAS—v-Qin (4 weeks versus 2
weeks), and focus titers were lower (20 foci/ug DNA of
RCAS-¥-Qin-En versus 60 foci/0.1 ug DNA of RCAS-—v-Qin).
As a negative control, a Qin-Ea chimera lacking the Qin
DNA-binding domain was included in these assays but no foci
were observed, suggesting that Cin-En caused oncogenesis
specifically through Gap target genes (deta ent shown). CEF
transfected with ether RCAS-»-Qin-VP16, RCAS-c-Qin-
VP16, or RCAS aione did not develop foci. Nontransformed
RCAS and RCAS-v-Qin-VP16 wansfected CEF were then
transferred and were superinfected with the RCAS—v-Qin
virus. This virus carried envelope proteins of subgroup B avian
retroviruses and was therefore not excluded from the trans-
fected cells which synthesized envelope protein of subgroup A.
The RCAS-transfected cells developed foci of transformed
cells in response to v-Qin. In contrast, the RCAS-v-Qio-VP16
transfectants showed an about 10-fold reduced susceptibility to
v-Qin-induced transformation (Table 1). This result suggests
that the Qin-VP16 chimera can function as a transdominant
negative mutant of Qin.

CEF transfected with the fusion constructs were studied by
immunofluorescence with a polyclonal antibody against intact
c-Qin (Fig. 38). CEF transformed by RCAS~v-Qin-En showed
an elongated spindle shape and relatively small cell body. In
contrast, CEF producing RCAS—~v-Qin-VP16 were polygonal
and flat, with an enlarged cell body. RCAS—c-Qin-En and
RCAS-c-Qin-VP16 induced the corresponding changes in
CEF (data not shown), and all fusion proteins were localized
in the nucieus.

PUBLICATIONS

 

Proc. Natl. Acad Sci. USA 94 11997" 108s"

A 1234

A.

OBKIRSV vO wO-En wO-VPIE

Fic. 2. DNA binding and cranseripuonal regulatory activities of
Qin chimeras. (A) Electrophoretic mobility shift assay of fusion
proteins transiated in vitro in wheat germ lysates. Each of the transiated
proteins binds to the jabeled B2 oligonucleotide probe containing the
Oin-binding sequence (2). Lanes: 1, c-Qin; 2, ¢-Qin-En: 3, ¢-Qin-
VP16, 4, vector control. (8) Luciferase assays from cotransfection
experiments performed in CEF using reporter plasmid péBClue (2)
and the individual fusion proteins expressed with the pBK/RSV
vector. In each transfection mixture, the amount of expression plasmid
was 2 yg per plate, and the reporter plasmid was kept at L wg per plate.

To test for oncogenicity in vivo, CEF transfected with the
chimeric RCAS constructs and releasing the corresponding
infectious RCAS virus were injected subcutaneously into the
wing web of newly hatched chickens. All chickens that received
the control construct RCAS-v-Qin came down with sarcomas
at the site of injection within two weeks. Four out of six
chickens injected with the Qin-En chimeras also developed
tumors but only after a 4- to 5-week latent period. In contrast,
none of six animals injected with Oin-VP16 showed a tumor
even after eight weeks. These results demonstrate that Qin-En
constructs are oncogenic, albeit less so than v-Qin, and Qin-
VP16 chimeras lack detectable oncogenic potential.

DISCUSSION

Transcriptional repression by the Qin oncoprotein is corre-
lated with oncogenic potential. This fact suggests that repres-
sion plays a role in neoplastic transformation and that Qin-
induced oncogenesis may result from aberrant repression of
specific genes. One would expect that these genes are negative
growth reguiators; they may normally function as tumor
suppressors, and their down-regulation may cause uncon-
trolled growth. Identification and isolation of direct Qin target
genes that are differentially reguiated in Qin-transformed cells
are now important tasks. This search may lead to the discovery
of new tumor suppressor genes. Target identification has

‘become the central problem for the understanding of all

oncogenic transcription factors. If tne number of relevant
targets is smal, « may be possible to induce the oncogenic
cellular phenotype using other means of target gene regula-
tion; in the case of the transcriptional repressor Qin, these may
be transdominant negatives or antisense technology applied to
the targets.

058565