ALLS Op
PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Richmond, Virginia

To: Jeff Seeman Date: December 18, 1991
From: 3. Fournier, A. Kallianos, J. Paine, K. Podraza

L
Subject: Weekly Inorganic Chemistry Update c. h. od

¢ The second 10-gallon synthetic preparation of magnesite at Pressure
Chemical Company is in progress.

¢ The technical package describing the synthesis of the aqueous non-
sol-gel material has been sent to two venders for scale-up considerations.

* Machine-made papers ware prepared at the University of Maine using
four different commercial calcites as filler.

Magnesite. The second 10-gallon synthetic preparation of magnesite at
Pressure Chemical Company is in progress. A sample of this material is
expected te arrive on Thursday for evaluation.

Aqueous Mon-Sol-Gel. A preliminary technical package describing the
synthesis of the aqueous non-sol-gel material has been compiled with Dr. W.
B. Edwards. This package is being forwarded to two vendors for scale-up
consideration.

Calcium Carbonate. Five papers were received from the handsheet lab,
comprising 25% MCS magnesite and 15% of various calcium carbonates, at 45
grama/m basis weight, 4.2 to 6.5 Coresta porosity, and 6-7% nominal
potassium succinate sizing. The calcites involved: Multifex MM, Albacar,
Albaglos, Microna 3, and Pfizer’s Heavy 5931 PCC USP/FCC. The papers are
being evaluated for sidestream reduction and elemental analysis.

Machine-made papers were prepared at the University of Maine using four
different calcites as filler. The four calcites, Albacar 5970, Microna 3,
Multifex MM, and Micro-White 25, were chosen because of their similar
particle size (~5 pm, Malvern Analyzer), different morphology, and commercial
availability. :

Hydromagnesite. Sidestream reduction results were received for a series of 7
papers prepared from five variously prepared samples of coarse
hydromagnesite. Sidestream reductions ranged from 63 to 80% {static burn
time 8.8 to 11.6 minutes). The ash color was about average while adhesion,
fall-off, and solidity were poor. These papers ware porous (5.4 to 8.2
Coresta) compared. to those derived from many of the previously examined
hydromagnesites, yet were effective in sidestream reduction.

Structures. of Substrates
calcite, calcium carbonate: [Caco, }

hydromagnesite, [Mg, (CO, ), (OH), «4H, 0]
magnesite, I[MgCO, } C91-06267

* SS908T2202