THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESHEARCH-U.S.A., INC.

 

 

PPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 THIRD AVENUE
Nrw YorRR, NY 10022

(212) 421-SHRS

JAMES FE. GLENN, M.D.

CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT October 1, 1996
CHIEF EXBCUTIVE OFFIWER

Dennis J. Templeton, M.D., Ph.D.
Department of Pathology and Oncology
Case Western Reserve University
10900 Euclid Avenue

Biomedical Research Bidg., 9th Floor
Cleveland, OH 44106-4943

Re: Grant No. 4264R1
Dear Dr. Templeton:

The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A., Inc. (CTR), is pleased to award you a renewal
grant in the amount of $80,000, including indirect costs, for the period from January 1, 1997
through December 31, 1997 for the proposed study: “Regulation of Cell Stress Signaling by a
New Antioxidant Protein." It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by
institutional authorities. Also, many applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap
with submissions to other agencies. If the latter result in awards, we should be notified
promptly so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of our award.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1997, even though
we recognize that your original application proposed a study extending one year beyond that
date. Therefore, if by May 31, 1997, you submit to us a formal non-competing renewal
application, including a report of your progress, your request will receive consideration.

Please review the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for Grantees." Please fill in
the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Contact Drs. Harmon McAllister
or George Hashim of our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant and keep us informed
about the progress of your study.

The enclosed statement of “Financial Requirements” indicates that the Council recovers
unexpended annual balances over $1,000 and that year end deficits cannot be recovered from
CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our failure to receive timely
financial statements from your grants office will stop further payments. Appropriate forms will
be sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are
relatively rare and we hope that this will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Sincerely, y
ee

James F. Glenn, M.D.
eo: Ms. Anne Dick

IFG:mm/enclosures

Bec: Auditors, ROK, LP, File,

M/M, Monitors,
Administrative Actions

50708841