PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: . Mr. Dick Heretick Date: January 22, 1988
From: . Myron Johnston . -
Subject: . Differences between smokers of Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights

As Peggy Martin noted in her memo on this subject, the major difference

between smokers of Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights is their age. Most of
the socio-economic differences observed are what one would expect on the basis
of the different age distributions. As she also mentioned, the National POL
Panel, on which those data are based, is short of young smokers and blacks,
because of the difficulty in recruiting them and keeping them on the panel, and
is heavily weighted with women. (When we select panelists for a product test
we select based on the true distribution of smokers of the brand of interest,
as you know.) Because the Panel is not truly representative of the market, I
looked at the data from the Tracking Study.

Percent who smoke Marlboro Lights and Winston Lights, by age

The top panel of Figure 1 shows the percent of all smokers who smoke a Marlboro
Light or Winston Light (King or 100), by age. Winston Lights Kings has its
highest market penetration among smokers 35 to 44 years old and Winston Lights
100s, like 100mm brands generally, skews toward an older group. By contrast,
Marlboro Lights Kings has its greatest appeal to the youngest smokers. As in
the case of Winston, the 100mm version skews toward somewhat older ages then
the King, but unlike Winston Lights 100s, Marlboro Lights 100 still has its
highest market penetration among the youngest smokers.

The bottom panel of Figure 1 shows the percent of smokers who smoke the
different packings of Marlboro Lights, by age. In both cases the box packings
skew more toward young smokers than the soft packs. This is true of virtually
every brand that is available in both box and soft pack.

Historical patterns of smoking of Marlboro Red and Marlboro Lights

Marlboro Lights has not always skewed so heavily to the young smokers. Until
the early 1980s the growth of Marlboro Lights was iargely a result of people
switching out of Marlboro Red, and its smokers were not as young as smokers of
Marlboro Red. Since then it has become increasingly an entry brand. Figure 2
shows the percent of smokers, by age, who smoked Marlboro Red and Marlboro
Lights (Kings or 100s) for the years 1979 to 1987.

Note that after several years during which both Marlboro Red and Marlboro
Lights increased share among the 18-21 year-old smokers, Marlboro Red declined
from 1986 to 1987, This, I think, is less cause for worry than might appear at
first glance. Between 1979 and 1982 the Marlboro Lights share of 18-21 year-
old smokers increased by eight percentage points, from ve to 13 percent of

OLSTOSOSOZ