PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: R. Comes Date: April 5, 1990

From: CKY Tatum CY MMi

Subject: Smoking Chamber Resul'ts: High Basis Weight Paper I

Cigarette models made with a series of medium basis weight papers: were

tested in the smoking chamber. All cigarettes were smoked at initial
conditions of 72 degrees Fahrenheit and 60% relative humidity.

The following, models were made using a 45 g/m basis weight paper
treated with various amounts of monobasic potassium phosphate: additive:

Base Sheet KH, PO), (analyzed) &-Port. (1)

Sample

id Code Ext Coeff
X8D9ICRI KC P8&Lx 0% (base sheet) 1.25
X8D9CRJ -1 " 2.2% 1.06
X8D9CRO " 9.8% 0.72
X8D9CRP " 14.1% 0.56

All models were made with Marlboro filler with aftercut.

All results: are listed in the attached tablles. The data presented is
averaged for the number of runs and/or cigarettes smoked as indicated in the
appropriately labeled columns. Data generated on the CORESTA prototype
smoking machine for both static and dynamic conditions are also reported.

Results are the average of three 5-cigarette runs for each model.

Comments concerning individual analyses and testing conditions: are
listed below.
% Gases are measured by on-line analyzers. Measurement staxts. one minute
after the mixing fan is turned on. Concentrations are determined by

computer which subtracts the average baseline readings (background)
from average plateau readings obtained after mixing. Data are reported

for Co, co, and NO.

TEOM particulate mass is collectedi during separate filive-cigarette runs.

*
Measurement is achieved using the TEOM mass monitor. The number
concentration, based on particles per cubic centimeter per cigarette, .
is determined simultaneously using the CPC particle number monitor. ca
* Opacity is determined by a newly installed instrument called a
The device

transmissometer (a product of Thermo Environmental).
measures: the reduction of the amount of light transmitted to the

instrument's detector caused by the presence of cigarette smoke. As
with. the on-line analyzers, measurement starts one minute after the

P9S9TSb>