mixing, fan is turned on. Concentrations are determinedi by computer and
are based on the difference between the signal immediately following
mixing and background determined before the lighting of the first
cigarette. Reported measurements are based on 30-cigarette runs. (3)
Ammonia data is basedi on duplicate determinations for each 30-cigarette
run. Analysis is by ion sellective electrode.

Routine collection of nicotine continues to be in five consecutive
five-minute intervals starting after mixing. (~10 to 12 minutes after
the lighting of the first cigarette) during each 30-cigarette run.
Collection is made using XAD-4 tubes at a sampling rate of l
liter/minute. As in previous reports, data presented include the
results of the first five-minute: collections of each run. (4) Aliso

reported are values generated by a new method described! in the

discussion section of this memo.

Formaldehyde and acetaldehyde are determined in duplicate for each 30-
cigarette run. Collection is made using DNPH impregnated SepPAK
cartridges. Analysis is. by hple separation off the alidehyde-DNPH

derivatives.

Discussion of Results:

All CORESTA and chamber data are summarized in Tables 1 andi 2.
Calculated reductions and comparisons based on the reported data are listed

in Table 3.

For this sample set, TEOM, opacity, and the CORESTA sidestream TPM
values provide a means of ranking sample visibilities comparable to that
based on the 8-port extinction coefffecients. While TEOM is: a mass
measurement and opacity is optical, calculated reductions: for both, relative
to the base sheet model, rank in the same order as visibility reductions
based on 8-port extinction coefficients. In addition, extinction
coefficients calculated using opacity readings trend with those from the 8-
port. Though less distinction is made between -CRO andi -CRP, calculated
reductions in the CORESTA static and dynamic sidestream TPM relative to the
base sheet model trend with the visibility reductions. based on 8-port

extinction coeffecients.

Very small changes were observed in CO andi CO, levels. NO increased

26%, 41%, and 31% in -CRJ-1, -CRO, and -CRP, respectively.

Relative to the base sheet model, slight reductions are observed in
ammonia for -CRJ-1 andi -CRP. However, -CRO shows an increase of 17%. There
is.an inherent variability to this procedure. Efforts are presently being
made to determine flactors that will yield more reproduceable results.

Collectively, formaldehyde and acetaldehyde concentrations are reduced
in: -CRJ-1, -CRO, and -CRP by 5%, 13%, andi 22%, respectively.

Quantitation of the nicotine collectedi over time does not reflect
liosses due to nicotine plating out on exposed surfaces within the chamber.
Included im the data is a nicotine value obtained using a procedure
developed by J.. Tindall (5,6): which uses. the five collected nicotine values

-2-

S9IS9TS Peon