eibunked in a national stud
F leased in’ New York. *

ie ye While most families

  
  

  

   

i Feant’ ‘way — for example, in quality of .
‘their diets, visits to doctors and dentists
and buying new eyeglasses. -
bi-This gap between bellefs | pra

B tices is evident in all areas of ‘tamily
- health: Obesity is widely. seen as a seri-
fous health menace; yet every third ‘fam-".
‘ily has at. Jeast one overweight member. «
nts who ‘smoke feel they should

  

 
   
   
 

  
   

4 -dren, but only 36. percent of them have

     
   

: led. hae
Regular. “exercise is" ‘widely seen. “as.
» beneficial, and yet two in three adults
? admit that a favorite form of exercise is .
rtwirling | a’ television «dial. The miajor -
“health fear is cancer, but only one per-
Son in four considers a physical check-~
tup the only way | to determine if he is

 
 

  
 
 

a ae
Wh gnc
the gospel of good health? What moti-
“ vates the few who heed it? The answers

     
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
       
     
     

in ‘a

 

p well-being, BEES 2
The ‘survey,

    
 

> con jucted by re-
W search firm of Yankelovich, Skelly and
[; White Inc. for..General Mills Inc., was
’ based on 2,181 interviews in a national
cross section of 1,254 homes, The mar-
B ein. of error in such a survey is general-
i nly plus or minus 3 percent... ..!
~The survey ‘reflects the attitudes of.
v ‘the country’s 58 million families in an
‘age of intense. onal interest in per
;- sonal health. “220; y
°"As Florence Skelly, executive vice
y : president of the research firm, put it:
»“There is a rather strange pattern
* emerging in the way the American fam-
fly thinks and -acts. about health. It.
“seems as if there is more commitment .
to looking and feeling terrific right now .
than there is to the avoidance of dread
7 disease in the future — even if some of
the preventive measures are simple and
; Inexpensive.” eae oe

 

 

 
 

me notion that the than they did a few years ago. Predict- .
ierican family is caught up in a regi- -

Praiehing jogging’ through the park and

  
   
      
 
   
       
  
    
     
   
 
 
 
 

   

- quit to set a good example for their chil-

si; felt well-informed on the symptoms of American families live “heaithie

jto these and other questions are found’.
panoramic, survey of American

    

~«° resort. Most families said they would

a problems*({61 percent); depression (59

 

 
 

Fe, the matter with them,’ she said. ..
* The title of the study offers ¢ a ‘clue. to *

   

   

STAN pO SDI ;
it =(36 percent). Othe are weichieg their’
“with the problems of‘ daily living now - calories (26 percent} or eating ore nu-
tritiousty @s5 percent) Seah ee
“ably, low-income families and singlie- “7-4; 3 cane
‘parent families are having a particular-
ly difficult time of it. -
““2The major source of stress in family
‘life centers on inflation, particularly the
ising cost of food and medical care.
‘Also cited were fear of crime, concern

    
   
  
 
  

  
       
 
     
   
      
     
      
     

  

feel that Washington ; should take an ac-
‘tive role. in.health care. Specifically,
. they believe the government should es-
tablish ¢ national health insurance plan,
“ spend more of the health dollar on the
Old and the’ poor, . guarantee . product
‘over personal safety, family problems ‘safety, and sponsor more medical re-
‘ena the family and a fob and s stil te to. search for meee other serious. ill-
luggie a family and a jo! ave | nesses, iy y 1 ree
ime for leisure. pursuits, .>*: er On the’ ‘other aes ae: it

ke te hs
- Most Americans agree with the medi, cally the middle-aged and the more af-,
“fluent, dismissed the idea of national’

cal experts that stress prevents
from practicing good beaith habits. Un- “health insurance as “a government give-
away. A

 

   

  
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
        

MM as

  

 

 

  

like the experts, however, they place
‘part of the blame on their own lack of GORE SE ety,
‘motivation, will power and information | *. Most Americans, almost four in five,’
about good health practices. .....2.4" Ay Want the government to make sure that
°< Asked’ to rate themselves in certain Products are safe despite the fact that.
“Key areas of health information, eight ‘most are, confused by all the govern-
out of 10 families felt at least somewhat focal workings, ;

tAmo ¢ other dreas in which more ac-
tion. On the other hand, only one in 1 “tion or information is needed to help

  
  
    
  

ra

 
    
 

 

   
      
       
    
   
  
 
 
        
   

 

‘mental illness, - “gg ‘ot
“On the one hand, “Americans $ Sa ’ they :
‘regard mental illness as‘a health prob. (34's,
lem rather than a sign of personal or and t uilding * up ‘will power, eee
Ssey maditenat as’ Gf mentsl lines: ©“. Providing more’ precise and reli
y 0 men NESS © able information on ‘health hazards. q
-— alcoholism, nervousriess, depression, -
hild abuse —- are widely viewed as * 7 Presenting’ “birth-control | informa:
‘signs of. personal ‘weakness rather than © ,Hon more effectively, to. feen-agers.
symptoms of. serious health problemis.
Underweight is seen as a health prob-
lem, overweight as an emoti nal weak

 
 
  

   
 

 

|beis and making the information on |:
them clearer and’ ‘easier to understand. |
Nad haath? 3 seat hood: ihaa MS yaa he hk Fade ase Ue it

  
  

 
  

          

ey

‘family prattitudes ‘On: issues relating to“):
i*Physical, psychological _ and_ emotional.

In any case, a visit fo a psychiatrist or
a psychologist would seem to be a last

" try to handle the following problems on
their own before seeking professional
help: insomnia (76 percent); smoking
too much (72 percent); children’s eating
-problems (65 percent); children’s tem-
“per tantrums (61 percent); marital

 

percent); nervousness and anxiety. (55
percent); fatigue (52 percent) and
drinking problems (48 percent). *
“In interpreting the survey findings ‘at
“a recent news conference, Ruth Clark,
senior vice president of the research
firm, pointed out that many signs of
mental iliness could be clearly traced to
stress in today’s society, although s some
families Seek to deny this. “

“The problem is between acceptable
‘stress and things like chronic depres-
sion, which people still want to put in
‘the closet. They’re afraid sae is

   
 

S9I20roTes

» While they. admit’ to much’ ‘packslid.

"the pattern: “Family Health in an Era ing, more than four in 10 have made
“of Stress.” Just living, it seems, can be some changes in lifestyle in the name of
* hazardous to one’s health. More ‘than. health. Many now recognize the dangers
e ; eight in 10 Americans cite 3 eed I for vivees faking @ pul for every pain (80 per-
gless stress in their r lives. See: eas4 me are exercising regularly