concentrations are below the threshold of concern and Scientific Affairs has
tentatively approved the use of these tobaccos. However, because of the
discrepancy in the two sets of results, additional review and analysis of these
samples by Hazelton is in progress and final approval must await confirmation of
these results.

III. LN-95
Extraction Investigation

A conceptual process design and development schedule - with recommendations -
was presented 4/13. The process to be developed will utilize recycled,
denicotinized extract in a batch configuration. The actual design of the extraction
vessels will be based upon further development. It has been agreed that the next
step of identifying specific personnel resources will be completed and presented in
approximately one week.

Double and Single Water Extraction

Three five-pound samples have been prepared and delivered to Brand R&D on
schedule. The three samples were: ih double water extracted CAMEL Lights
blend with a blend nicotine of approximately 0.11% (94% of the nicotine removed),
2) double water extracted CAMEL Ment blend with denicotinized extract reapplied
with a blend nicotine of approximately 0.07% (96% nicotine removed), 3) single
water extracted CAMEL Lights blend with Agricultural Research low nicotine
(ARLN) flue-cured and burley tobaccos (analysis not yet complete). A fourth
sample will be completed as soon as equipment repairs on the one inch Karr
extraction column are completed.

Supercritical Extraction

Data and results have been reviewed for the screening trials, using the Product
and Applied Technology Superex Column. Results had a low degree of
correlation, because of extensive interaction. The use of ethanol as a modifier or
co-solvent with carbon dioxide did improve nicotine extraction. Process time
appeared as the most important variable. Unfortunately, time is not a controllable
variable with the Superex Column. Solvent temperature and density were also
important variables, with pressure sometimes being an important variable. In
general, the data had a large degree of variability and inconsistency. Because of
equipment limitations such as time, the Superex Column, while suitable as a
screening system, offers limited opportunities for process optimization. Equipment

4

soze 9020S