Off-Shore Production

Discussions are currently underway concerning the potential of off-shore
production of 800,000 pounds of LN flue-cured and 500,000 pounds of LN burley
during the 1989-1990 growing season. These tobaccos could be available for
delivery by mid-year, 1990.

Monitoring Production

Agricultural Science personnel will monitor and provide updated evaluations on
the production progress on each farm. Recommendation on cultural and other
practices will be made as necessary.

Leaf Delivery and Purchase

The cured LN flue-cured leaf will be delivered to either of two tobacco warehouses
(one in Winston-Salem and one in Reidsville). The cured LN burley leaf will be
delivered to a single warehouse in Lexington, KY. The tobaccos will be delivered
on specified dates, weighed, and graded according to USDA, AMS standards, as
well as RJRT standards. For reasons of security, the tobaccos will only remain in
the warehouses for the minimum time necessary to complete the warehouse
procedures, before being transferred to RJRT facilities. Original plans called for the
LN tobaccos to be graded by USDA, AMS tobacco inspectors. However, it has
been revealed that federal law prohibits their inspection of non-auctioned tobacco
in operating tobacco warehouses to which warehouse fees are paid. Therefore,
arrangements are being made for recently retired AMS inspectors to apply the
USDA, AMS standard grades to the LN tobaccos. Thorough attempts are being
made to comply with all USDA and ASCS laws and regulations that apply to the
purchase of these tobaccos, as they relate to both RJRT and the contract growers.
The purchase of the LN flue-cured tobacco should be completed by 10/15/89 and
that of the LN burley should be completed by 1/30/90.

LN Tobacco Pesticide Analysis

Five samples each of aged flue-cured and burley low nicotine tobaccos, obtained
from the University of Kentucky, have been evaluated for aldicarb residues. A
previous analysis of composite samples found a total aldicarb residue of 3.07 ppm
in the flue-cured tobacco and 0.98 ppm in the burley sample. In the current
sampling, the flue-cured samples contained 0.65 + 0.38 ppm total aldicarb, whereas
the burley samples contained 0.49 + 0.33 ppm of this insecticide. These

w
vOZE 9OLO0S