transfected into the ES cells, and the consequences of their expression on hematopoiesis reproducibly
examined over along time period. Thus, several ES cell lines were derived that expressed various levels of
antisense vav transcripts transcribed from the phosphoglycerol kinase (pgk) promoter. These clones, when
examined for hematopoietic cell differentiation, showed a dramatic reduction of blood cell containing colonies
as compared with normal ES cells. The inhibition of hematopoietic differentiation was confirmed at the
transcriptional level by examining various lineage specific mRNAs (e.g. GATA-1, PU.1 and CDii-b). Thus,
the blocking of vav, a putative pan-hematopoietic specific gene, results in a profound disturbance of
hematopoietic cell differentiation in these totipotential ES cells. ES cells, therefore, represent an ideal
model system for expressing individual regulatory genes of HIV whose cellular and molecular effects on
hematopoiesis can be followed throughout the various stages of differentiation into mature blood cells.

ES cells will be transfected with PGK expression vector constructs containing vpr, a full length clone
with a deletion of vpr, and a complete full length clone of HIV. Neomycin resistant clones will be isolated and
analyzed for expression of HIV genes by Northern analysis. Selected clones expressing vpr will then be
cultured in methylcellulose in the presence of hematopoietic growth factors, conditions that will promote
blood cell differentiation in the developing ES cell colonies. The following parameters will be monitored to
determine the effect of HIV genes on hematopoiesis: 1) morphology and cloning efficiency of ES cells; 2)
percentage of hematopoietic positive colonies forming; 3) frequency and type of secondary colonies derived
from primary colonies; 4) expression of hematopoiesis related genes during the various stages of ES cell
differentiation. At the same, expression of HIV genes will be monitored by a combination of RT-PCR and
Northern Blot analysis. The vpr gene will be cloned into a vector with an inducible promotor if acute
disruption of ES cell proliferation and differentiation make the detailed study of vpr's effect difficult.

While direct suppression of stem cells may represent one mechanism by which HIV can alter normal
hematopoiesis, the demonstration that HIV can infect a human stroma cell line suggests another mechanism
involving an effect on the regulatory function of accessory stroma cells within the bone marrow
microenvironment in supporting the maintenance, proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic stem
cells. Early studies in long term bone marrow cultures established the importance of the stroma in the
regulation of hematopoiesis. This regulation is mediated both by cytokines produced by the stroma and by the
physical cell to cell interaction between progenitor and stroma cells. Also critical is the interaction of
progenitor cells with the proteins of the extracellular matrix. While the role of stroma derived growth
factors in the regulation of hematopoiesis has been well studied, the importance and function of specific
adhesion molecules and extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins is presently the subject of active research.
Important adhesion pathways through the integrin superfamily of adhesion molecules are being identified and
the role of specitic ECM proteins defined. Such adhesive interactions are important in the “homing” of stem
cells following transplantation and in the normal development of progenitor cells into mature and functional
blood cells. As such, HIV infection of stroma cells may impair their ability to mediate the regulation of
progenitor cell development via cytokine production and/or disrupt the normal adhesion pathways that
mediate the cell to cell interaction important for this development. Therefore, our goal in the next two
specific aims is to examine the effect of HIV on the hematopoietic support function and adhesion properties of
stroma cells.

Our second aim is to determine whether the vpr gene of HIV is responsible for the loss in the ability
of HIV infected stroma cells to support the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells. We
will employ the short-term coculture system developed in this laboratory to assess the hematopoietic
support function (HSF) of vpr transfected stroma cells lines. The HSF will be measured by the ability of an
adherent layer of BS-1, L88/5 or L87/4 cells (normal human stroma cell lines) to support the growth of
hematopoietic colonies from murine bone marrow target cells overlaid in supplemented methylcellulose
cultures. Since murine cells cannot be infected by HIV, their use as target cells ensures thal any observed
decrease in colony formation is only due to an effect of the virus on the stroma’s ability to support hemato-
poiesis. Also, since HIV can infect both human progenitor cells and stroma cells, the use of this murine bone
marrow/human stroma coculture system eliminates the problem of determining whether virus suppression
of hematopoiesis in long term cultures is due to an effect on progenitor celis or on the supporting stroma
cells. BS-1 cells readily support the growth of CFU-GM, BFU-E and CFU-meg. However, the number of BFU-
E and CFU-GM colonies is markedly reduced after HIV infection of the BS-1 cells. Viral specificity is
demonstrated in antibody blocking studies which show that HIV's negative effect on the HSF can be blocked
when the virus is exposed to antibody to its gp160 surface antigen. Further evidence suggests an effect of

50647414