PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Disturbances in hematopoiesis is a characteristic clinical finding in patients
with AIDS. Patients present with abnormalities in one or more lineages resulting in neutropenia, anemia and
thrombocytopenia. The mechanisms by which HIV causes these disturbances are not known but are critical to
an understanding of the hematologic pathobiology of the virus and the clinical management of patients with
AIDS. In this grant, we propose to examine the molecular basis for our published findings of two mechanisms
by which HIV can cause disturbances in hematopoiesis: direct suppression of progenitor cell growth and
differentiation; and a negative effect on the accessory hematopoietic support function (HSF) of stroma cells.
Using a murine embryonic stem cell (ES) line, as a model for stem cell development, and human stroma cell
lines, transfection experiments will focus primarily on the role of the vpr regulatory gene in altering the
developmental and functional properties of these hematopoietic cells. This focus is based on the observation:
that vpr transfected into a rhabdomyosarcoma cell line can induce its differentiation. Thus, vpr may cause a
disruption of the carefully regulated and coordinated processes of proliferation and differentiation that
occurs during the development of progenitor cells into mature and functional progeny. A disruption in the
function of stroma cells may similarly be affected by the activity of the vpr gene.

In their paper on HIV induction of rhabdomyosarcoma muscle celi line differentiation, Levi and co-
workers showed that HIV expression leads to inhibition of the muscle cell's proliferation and the activation of
the dormant endogenous differentiation Program. The effect was mediated by the regulatory vpr gene of the
virus with its protein acting as a regulator of cell function. In discussing the implications of these findings,
the authors speculate that “stem cell populations (e.g., skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, hematopoietic pre-
cursors) are disrupted by vor and lose the ability to replenish tissues, leading to a gradual decline of mature
effector population." Since some viruses can activate cellular genes in a variety of cells, it is reasonable to
examine whether HIV regulatory genes can induce changes in the normal pattern of gene expression in
hematopoietic progenitor celts and the accessory Cell function of stroma cells. Such an approach may provide
evidence for the dysregulation of proliferation and differentiation as a mechanism of bone marrow suppress-
ion, The authors also postulate that “cells that are subject to abortive infection, owing to an inability of the
cells to support virus replication, nevertheless might be dysregulated by the activities of vpr.". Thus, non-
productively infected cells of tissues that are not the usual targets of HIV in vivo, but are afflicted in AIDS
patients, may be dysregulated in the absence of reverse transcription, integration, or residual viral nucleic
acid. This may explain the consistent lack of evidence for a direct effect on progenitor cells in in vivo studies
while in vitro experiments demonstrate that progenitor cells can be infected by HIV and their growth
impaired. Though replication of the virus is, perhaps dogmatically, the yardstick by which a cell's tropism
for HIV is measured, it is possible that abortive infection of a cell that is not the usual target of the virus can
still alter the function of that cell. In this context, the marked suppression of progenitor cell growth in
vitro following infection by hepatitis B virus correlates with only a transient replication of the virus in
bone marrow cultures. We postulate, therefore, that while bone marrow progenitor cells or stroma cells
may not be the primary target cell of HIV in situ, abortive infection may still have negative consequences on
their development and function.

Our first aim is to determine whether the vpr gene of HIV is responsible for the suppression of
hematopoietic progenitor cells. The mouse embryonic siem cell (ES) is a totipotential cell line that has the
Capacity to develop into every tissue type when injected into host blastocysts. As such, it has become a
valuable tool in the study of hematopoiesis and its molecular biology, and so will be used as a developmental
model of hematopoiesis in these studies. Several characteristics of ES cells make it a good model to define the
role of vpr (and other regulatory genes) in stem cell suppression, and a good substitute for primary bone
marrow derived CD34+ cells whose use in similar studies may be technically more difficult. Since ES cells
are a pure population of truly totipotential cells, they can be used to gain insight into the biological
significance of novel genes, and dissect the molecular processes that occur during the early events of
commitment, self-renewal, and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells. Furthermore, in vitro
techniques have been developed to study hematopoietic cell differentiation in ES cells, and the profile and
pattern of genes activated during this process have been characterized and are consistent and reproducible.
Thus, the expression of genes involved in the early stages of hematopoiesis precede those required for the
terminal stages of differentiation. Alterations in the normal process of differentiation is reflected in a
distorted profile of gene expression. These observations are relevant to the proposed study. Finally, based
on our studies on studies of the vav proto-oncogene, genes of particular interest can be readily and stably

50647413