HIV on growth factor production as a cause for the stroma’s diminished HSF.

Using the expression vectors described above, we will establish stably transfected clones of BS-1,
L88/4, and L88/5 stroma cells expressing the vpr gene by electroporation (Bio-Rad Gene Pulser and Pulse
Controller) or calcium phosphate precipitation. Selection medium will be added 48 hours after transfection.
Expression of the regulatory gene in transfected stroma will be monitored by RT-PCR. Selected stroma
clones will be grown up and used to assess the effect on the hematopoietic support function of the stroma
cells. As with the transfection of ES cells, some difficulties may be overcome, and experimental conditions
can be more tightly regulated by studying transfectants carrying an inducible promoter. The effect of
transfected vpr on the kinetics of growth factor production and gene expression will be studied and correlated
with the observed effects on the HSF. Furthermore, the responsiveness of these transfected stroma cell lines
to IL-1 activation with respect to growth factor production and gene expression, and their ability to support
hematopoiesis will be evaluated. This is based on preliminary data suggesting that HIV infected stroma cell
lose their responsiveness to activation by IL-1.

Our third goal is to investigate whether the virus and the vpr gene can cause disturbances in hemato-
poiesis by altering the adhesion properties of stroma cells. Such an effect would disrupt normal hemato-
poiesis by impairing the cell to cell interaction between stem cells and stroma cells that is critical for the
development of progenitor cells into mature and functional blood cells to occur. The adhesion properties of
normal stroma cells are functionally assayed in our laboratory by determining the percentage of progenitor
cells from normal human or mouse bone marrow that adhere to a confluent culture of HIV infected or vpr
transfected stroma cells following a short term incubation. Thus, normal bone marrow cells enriched for
progenitor cells or purified CD34+ cells are plated onto a confluent culture of BS-1 L87/4 or L88/5 human
Stroma ceil lines. After a 2-3 hour incubation, the cells remaining nonadherent are carefully collected and
assayed for progenitor cells in supplemented methylcellulose in the presence of hematopoietic growth
factors. The number of BFU-E and CFU-GM is compared with the number obtained from bone marrow cells
plated onto control cultures having no stroma cells. The difference represents the number of progenitor
cells that have adhered to the stroma. tn preliminary studies, a confluent culture of BS-1 cells or primary
cells was exposed to HIV at an MO! of 1. Adhesion of normal bone marrow progenitor cells was assessed at
three days postinfection. Expressed as the percentage of progenitor celis that remain adherent to the stroma
foliowing incubation, the results indicate that fewer BFU-E and CFU-GM can achere to the infected stroma as
compared with the uninfected controls. These results suggest that HIV can alter the stroma cell's ability to
interact with and bind progenitor cells. These studies will be solidified and the appropriate antibody
blocking experiments performed to demonstrate a virus mediated effect.

The effect of IL-1, alone or in combination with TNE and IL-4, on the adhesion properties of infected
stroma cells will be assessed. As the expression of some adhesion molecules are upregulated by IL-1, we
expect to observe an increase in the percentage of progenitor cells that adhere to normal stroma activated by
cytokines. Thus, we will determine whether the responsiveness of stroma cells to cytokine activation is
compromised by HIV. We will examine the IL-1/cytokine responsiveness of the stroma cells lines after HIV
infection.

The molecular basis for HIV's effect on the adhesion properties of stroma cells will focus on the vpr
regulatory gene in studies similar to those described above. Furthermore, the responsiveness of these
transtectants to activation by IL-1 (alone or itr combination with TNF or IL-4} will be examined in these
functional assays. Similar studies will be carried out using inducible transfectants.

In the various experiments detailed above, the results of the adhesion assays will be correlated with
the surface expression of several adhesion molecules (VCAM-1, iCAM-1, Kit Ligand, fibronectin). Since
expression of some adhesion molecules are upregulated by cytokine activation, we will compare the response
of infected and uninfected cells to IL-1 (alone or in combination with IL-4 or TNF). Expression wit! also be
examined at the RNA level by Northern Blot analysis using specific probes for ICAM, VCAM. Kit Ligand, and
Fibronectin.

We have also begun to use the adhesion assay in antibody blocking experiments to define the role of
specific adhesion molecules in the binding of particular progenitor cells. For example, the role of ckit ligand
was examined by preincubating confluent stroma cell cultures with varying concentrations of antibody to
cKit ligand. We observed a dose-response effect of anti-cKit ligand on the adherence of BFU-E and CFU-GM
to the BS-1 stroma cell line suggesting a role for cKit in the cell to cell interaction with these progenitor
cells.

50647415