4 ‘
teween ee

HKG2015 218
Cell Biolagy International Reports, Vol. 7, No. 3, March 1983 207

Differential association with cytoskeletal structures may explain
these differences. If this hypothesis is correct, nonecross-1 inked
SIg appears to be under cytoskeletal constraint, which is increased
by cross-linking. The attachment of cross-linked Sig to the cyto-
Skeletal matrix is supported by the experiments which show that
cross-linked SIg is bound to actin which can be precipitated by
myosin (Flanagan and Koch, 1978) and that cross-] inked SIg is assoc-
iated with a detergent insoluble cytoskeleton (Braun, et. al.,
1982). Non-cross-linked RT! is under relatively less constraint
than SIg but under more constraint than thy-1. When RT] is cross-
linked it is immobilized. Thy-1 is under little constraint and is
only immobilized when 2 layers of cross-linking antibody are used.
Thy-1 appears to undergo rapid lateral diffusion similar te that
described for rhodopsin (Poo and Cone, 1974). The requirement for a
second antibody layer to immobilize thy-1 suggests that the control
mechanism of its mobility is different than SIg and RT]. Thy-1
might not attach to cytoskeletal structures and might be immobilized
only due to the formation of large aggregates.

It fs probable that the insertion of membrane proteins influences
their movement within the membrane. If a protein is not transmem-
brane, such as thy-1, (Campbell et. al., 1981) a fast diffusion rate
would be expected. Class [ histocompatibility proteins such as RT1
are transmembrane and have an appreciable cytoplasmic domain (Ploegh
et. al. , 1981). Such a cytoplasmic portion might be available for
interaction with cytoskeletal structures. IgM appears to have only
3 cytoplasmic amino acids (Rogers et. al., 1980) and yet has a
relatively restricted mobility. I am currently employing biochea-
ical techniques to explore the interactions of membrane proteins
with cytoskeletal elements.

Our FRAP data shows both similarities and differences to previously
published data on the diffusion of lymphocyte membrane proteins.

The D for SIg obtained in these experiments is somewhat larger than
previously reported (Dragsten, et. al., 1979; Henis and Elson, 19u1,
Peacock and Barisas, 1981). Uncertainties in the evaluation of W
and F infinity, as well as species differences may contribute to the
discordance. The ratios of D obtained for our cells, stained with
cross-linking and non-cross=linking antibodies gives a valid esti-
mate of the relative difference in membrane protein mobility in
these experiments. The large immobile fraction of Sig when labeled
with Fab’ is similar to that reported by some investigators (Peacock
and Barisas, 1981), but somewhat greater than reported by others
(Henis and Elson, 1981; Dragsten, et. al., 1979). The experiments
of others (Dragsten, et. al., 1979), showed no difference in the 1)
of Sly and thy-1 and a larger mobile fraction of Sly than for thy-1.
However, they used Fab to label Sly and bivatent antibody to label
thy-1. In our experiments using monovalent Fab' anti-thy-] the D of
thy-1 was 8.4 tines that of Sig and the mobile fraction was times
that of SIg. Similar to the experiments of Draysten, (Dragsten,