CYTOVOXIC T LYMPHOCYTES SPECIFIC FOR
SELF TUMOR IMMUNOGLOBULIN EXPRESS
T CELL RECEPTOR 6 CHAIN

By ANN WRIGHT, JEFFREY E. LEE,’ MICHAEL P. LINK,
STEPHEN D. SMITH, WILLIAM CARROLL,! RONALD LEVY,!
CAROL CLAYBERGER, anp ALAN M. KRENSKY

From the Departments of Pediatrics, *Surgery, and tMedicine,
- Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305

One goal of cancer research is to exploit the exquisite specificity of immune recog-
nition to eliminate tumors in vivo. Although their role in immune surveillance of
tumor cells remains unclear, CTL are possible candidates for adoptive immunotherapy.
The effectiveness of this therapy depends on CTL recognition of specific tumar an-
tigen. Ig on B cell lymphomas is an ideal tumor-specific antigen since it has a vari-
able region (idiotype) that is tumor specific (1, 2). We report here that human CTL
specific for the idiotype on autologous B cell tumors could be selectively expanded
in vitro. The phenotype of these CTL is CD3*,CD4°,CD8~ and they express the
§ chain of the TCR. Such CTL could be grown in vitro for the treatment of B cell
lymphoma.

Materials and Methods

Celi Lines. ‘Tamor cell lines were established as described (3) fram the primary tumors
of three patients with Burkit’s lymphoma. The SUP-B8 cell line was derived from tumor
isolated from the bone marrow of a 15-yr-old female with Burkit’s lymphoma with extensive
bone marrow involvement (B cell ALL). The patient achieved a complete remission after
treatment with chemotherapy but suffered an isolated central nervous system relapse. She
received an autologous bone marrow transplant, depleted of malignant cells with anti-B1 mAb,
following preparation with total body irradiation and high dose cyclophosphamide. Reeur-
rent B cell acute lymphoblastic leukernia was documented 5 wk after uansplanc, and 9 mo
after initial diagnosis. Peripheral blood was obtained from the patient at the time of leukemic
relapse. The SUP-B12 ccll line was derived from tumor isolated from a 7-yr-old male with
Burkitt's lymphoma with extensive bone marrow involvement (B cel! ALL). He was treated
with intensive chemotherapy and complete remission was documented ¢ wk after the start
of treatment. He received intensive maintenance chemotherapy, which was electively discon-
tinued 18 mo later. He remains in continuous complete remission. PBL were obtained from
this patient both during and after chemotherapy while in remission. ‘The SUP-BI17 cell line
was derived from the malignant ascites fluid from a 3 and 3/12-yr-old male who presented
with a primary Burkitt's lymphoma in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. Bone marrow
and cerebrospinal fluid examinations were normal and he was designated stage III, Com-
plete remission was obtained with chemotherapy, which was electively discontinued after 15

This work was supported by National Institutes of Health grant CA-34233, fellowship AI-07290 fram
the ‘Lraining Program in Immunology (to A. Wright and J. E. Lee), and by an American Heart Associa-
tion Established Investigator Award (to A. M. Krensky).

J. Exp. Mep. © The Rockefeller University Press - 0022-1007/89/05/1557/08 $2.00 1357
Volume 169 May 1989 1557-1564

 

40036154