“RESPONDENT FOR FOR DEALING UIT TELEPHONE ‘SURVEYS Bo

be bulnh (Cobo ete Re

 

oe

As @ wmenber of « @ very “gelect group of RIR enployees working ons b sensitive end
‘eritical Project for the Conpany ; you ‘way Secons the target Of -soné rather
tesophisticated “infornation probes. © One unique and not commonly used method for

| <Butside agencies ‘to gather “information that might not otherwise becone .
“aveilable is Sy 6 -télephone "survey": “In fact thers are @ good many dapitinate
‘eurveys ‘that ‘ere ‘conducted by telephone. “Our response; ‘as RIR employees, ;
‘should ‘be to néver answer “télephone eurveys, Yegitimate of wndts° En fact some
‘legitimate epencies ‘night “even be used unsuspectingly for ‘devious reasons.
‘Therefore, we believe that you may be well served by using the outline below
‘whan contacted for telephone survey information. “This format should give you
‘an opportunity to pather information on who is calling you. - “By sharing this
“information with your management, we can better understand “how to maintain
security all] the way to market, plus get some insight into what and who we
might have to Seal with along the way.

“enh sons. bec de the are besiec >

The questions listed below should ‘essict you to ‘that end. Bree

* ta .
yet ES

1. ‘How did. you happen to get my name and telephone number?

2. What did you say the name of your organization was, where ere you located?
3. Who is your client for this survey? °°” 5 |

+4. “What geographical area of the country sre you covering in ‘the survey? .

5S, Can-you tell we tow this survey information will be ‘sised? °'*°

s. ‘Are you pramarity pethering your ‘Information ‘from corporate RED fecilities?

tio, “
as

7. What kind of confidential ity does your tire assure on “this survey?

  

enswer sorvey ‘questions. “Also I have to attend @ meeting in a few =
wo why don*t you just drop your questionnaire in the wail, and I'1l~4ry—to—
111 it out in wey spare time. By ‘the way, do you have a phone number
could reach, you at?
Bone Rye 2a, .f, ,ei3 :
If they do: ‘send the questionnaire, it is probably depitinate,, but there is no
Quarantee. Therefore, we request that you turn the survey form over to your
menagenent | Bo ‘that we way review @t further” <8 ote bos Fea ert | oe
wk be BLT Te BE ON ER a @ ft Mes hag © teem Fb teat seh 2
Pavowe gad igt:, ae ‘et green oo at ta one 7 wot big de the. deen:
Sat FE Beaks pour Lime er eines Gees gre Soe ek tse Tosser meee bata
‘Spee Peg ei Mae eae AF you ens Pateagaeseens Sr otientt get at ei. bey

y

Ste Pg FR Pe Ne #etoee Soe ad RET SRL ee NS Ee ad pres re

> te a y . 1 :
\ ree Shay? the. VT owe ges r a wee wre eto. 4