REASON FOR NOMINATION: AN

(SPECIFICALLY describe why your nominee(s) deserve the award you a are recommending.)

| BELIEVE THIS PERSON (OR TEAM) SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR THE AWARD BECAUSE:
INTRODUCTION

Fibrous glass has been perceived by some as potentially of toxicological significance. Product prototypes of XDU
utilize a special form of fibrous glass in their manufacture. To assure that no significant amount of fibrous glass can
be transferred to the XDU mainstream smoke, scientists in the Toxicology Division and the Regulatory and Scientific
Affairs Division established a program to measure mainstream fibrous glass transfer. The implementation of this

program by Mr. Jerry Avalos, Mr. Keith Shreve and Mr. Guy Spence Is the basis for their consideration as recipients
of the "China Breaker Award”:

THE PROGRAM

The program to measure the fiber transfer in mainstream XDU smoke requires many steps. The principal steps
include:

1) identifying and preparing standards of fibrous glass to be used in assessing the efficiency of transfer in each
phase of the smoke collection effort, 2) identifying and implementing an appropriate smoke collection system
compatible with the endpoints to be measured and 3) identifying and utilizing a quantitative technique for counting
the fibers that may be transferred in the smoke. Each of these principal steps is comprised of many smaller, but
significant efforts as well.

At the time of program initiation, a timeline was agreed upon that was based on management's best scientific
understanding of the problem and the need for a rapid response. Jerry, Keith and Guy understood that they would
be under significant pressure to meet the goals of the program from day-one, and were, of course, willing to give
their best efforts. Everything was outlined and work could proceed as planned. This is when the story becomes
interesting.

WHY A "CHINA BREAKER AWARD"

Jerry, Keith and Guy knew from conversation with management that the earlier the program could be completed the
better for the Company in a number of areas. Rather than just conduct the study as outlined, they discussed the
program among themselves and identified several alternative approaches that just might be faster, less expensive,
and less labor-intensive. They chose an alternative approach and went to work to demonstrate its potential.

Rather than employing scanning electron microscopy to visualize and count the fibers that may be collected in the
fiber transfer studies, they chose to use polarized light microscopy with an interface to a video tape recorder and
television monitor. This approach was validated by the team and proved to be very advantageous.

The advantages include:

1) The elimination of sample preparation for scanning electron microscopy, an effort that required about an hour per
sample;

2) A reduction of time for sample quantitation from four hours to 20 minutes per sample;

3) The elimination of a major dependency on sophisticated instrumentation (SEM) with a high demand for utilization
on many high priority company programs;

4) Eliminated subsequent project interruptions for those other programs within the Company that depend on the
availability of scanning electron microscopy;

5) A reduction in labor necessary to provide the data of interest;

6) A permanent record could be developed to demonstrate the quantification process for each sample on video tape.

Sao

0998S 2LeIS