Page Seven
Fundamental R&D (Continued)

progress of the UK study to assess exposure to ETS. His values for average
nicotine concentrations and carbon monoxide levels are in good agreement with
those obtained in our New York City study. However, measurements of
particulate concentrations with the MINIRAM give results at the 500 wg/m
level. These values appear excessively high and are due to methodological
problems demonstrated experimentally by RJR ETS studies. Preliminary results
of the New York City survey were presented by Dr. Green. Because of the
current reorganization within the Verband, they had nothing new to report.
The next meeting is planned for Washington, DC, March 18-19, 1987.

TI-ETS Advisory Committee Meeting, Washington, DC, November 6, 1986

A monthly meeting of the TI~ETS Advisory Committee was attended by Ms. M.
Ward, Mr. J. Viren, and Drs. Nystrom and Green, The featured speaker of the
day was Dr. S. DiNardi (University of Massachusetts) who spoke on progress of
his studies entitled “Assessing Exposure to Respirable Suspended Particles
from Environmental Tobacco Smoke in the Indoor Environment”. In essence, Dr.
DiNardi has put together a 475~pound mobile cart loaded with various particle
measuring equipment and is prepared to begin particle measurements in various
public places. Committee members recommended that some measurement of ETS,
i.e., nicotine, be included in the public studies.

AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE
Leaf Situation

Marketing of the 1986 flue-cured crop is rapidly drawing to a close.
Stabilization loan receipts have declined considerably from the 1985 level and

may be the lowest since 1978 or 1979. Though average prices were down $19 per

hundred, lower assessment costs helped growers to improve profit margins on
many farms. Auctions for the 1986 burley crop will begin on November 24. The
effective burley quota is 488 million pounds, down 10% from 1985. The average
support price for burley will be $1.488 per pound.

 

 

ce

BIOCHEMICAL/ BIOBEHAVIORAL R&D

 

 

 

 

Additives

Diammonium phosphate has been approved as an additive at up to 6% in
pectin-release cast sheet. A maximum level of 15% treated sheet is used in a
cigarette tobacco blend. Previous data had shown an increase in Ames activity
when condensate from cigarettes made with 4% diammonium phosphate was
evaluated. However, when up to 8% sheet was used in a conventional cigarette
blend, there was no increase in activity, Other unpublished data have shown
that there were no adverse biological effects via mouse skin painting of

 

 

6605 6750S