ger *

Page Six
R&D Technical Services (Continued)

Surplus HP 1000 Systems

RJR MacDonald personnel have indicated that they wish to acquire two of the
older HP 1000 systems which we will be replacing in early 1987. The systems
will be used to begin their laboratory automation process.

 

 

FUNDAMENTAL R&D . .

 

 

ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO ‘SMOKE (ETS) RESEARCH/ INFORMATION

International Experimental Toxicology Symposiun on Passive Smoking, Essen,

FRG, October 23-25, 1986

This meeting was attended by Ms. M. Ward, Drs. C. Coggins, G. Oldaker, C.
Green (RJRT), and Dr. 0. Stuhl and Mr. W. Dembach (RJRTI). The tobacco
industry was well represented with about 40% of the attendees. In general,
papers critical of ETS exposure offered little new information and tended to
be technologically deficient. Many probing questions that highlighted these.
problems were asked of the presenters by.industry and other concerned
scientists. One extremely poor study by Dr. L. Wallace (U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency) attempted to show a relationship between ETS, benzene
exposure, and leukemia. The science was so weak that the author refused to
draw conclusions but offered further speculation instead. Industry papers
pointed out methodological problems associated with ETS particle measurement
and raised questions concerning the significance of inhalation experiments
with concentrated sidestream smoke. Opponents were especially troubled by
industry papers den-nstrating extremely low exposure to ETS in normal
situations. Dr. Oldaker did an excellent job in fielding questions on his
presentation on aircraft cabin air quality. Other. industry scientists were
very complimentary concerning RJR legal representatives at the conference and
hoped their counterparts would become more intimately involved in ETS
scientific issues.

Joint Meetirg of TAC, Verband, and TI Scientific Representatives, London, UK,

October 31, 1986

A joint meeting of scientists involved with ETS research among the United
Kingdom, West Germany, and United States industry advisory committees was held
to discuss technological issues of common interest. The meeting was chaired
by Dr. A. Nelms, (Gallaher); RJR was represented by Dre. Rodgman, Stuhl, and
Green. The favorable outcome of the Essen meeting was reviewed and all
present agreed that Industry should continue its proactive role at future
scientific meetings concerning ETS. Dr. R. Perry (Imperial College) reviewed

€S06 6750S