P -/3100 13 Jun. 94 KHO/RPE 3100_txt.doc Page 1

/ OSHA claimes that “A correlation between nicotine absorption and exposure to tobacco smoke

\

has been demonstrated, thus making nicotine an appropriate marker for tobacco smoke in
pharmacokinetic studies” [59FR, 15974, April 5, 1994] and “It appears that the most effective
strategy currently achievable would be to rely on nicotine (or cotinine) measurement as a specific
marker of ETS exposure.” [59FR, 15998, April 5, 1994]. A we chg “ +s 4

Nicotine as a specific marker of ETS exposure:

However, as stated by S.L. Schwartz et al. [S.L. Schwartz et al., 1993] “Nicotine or cotinine
biomonitoring can provide, at best, only semiquantitative information about exposure, and has
only limited ability to estimate dose, duration and time since termination of exposure’. Balter et
al. go even further [Balter et al., 1988], “The predominance of nicotine in the ETS gas phase
implies that nicotine is not a satisfactory marker for the particle phase and, perhaps, not for
whole ETS per se”. A necessary condition for nicotine as a valid surrogate marker for ETS would
be that in real life situations nicotine is present and can be detected with sufficient proportionality
to other characteristic and biologically relevant constituents of environmental tobacco smoke.
Analytical measurements, however, under defined and reproducible conditions suggest “that
some components of environmental tobacco smoke are dominated by contributions from other
sources in indoor environments (e.g., CO, and to a lesser extent NO, and particles). On the other
hand nicotine and some other components of environmental tobacco smoke (e.g., myosmine)
are found in indoor environments at concentrations lower than would be expected. This is due to
specific loss of gas phase material by deposition to the surroundings’. [Balter et al., 1988 and
references cited there]. According to Eatough et al. [Eatough et al., 1990] “Environmental
tobacco smoke will be a constantly changing mixture due to loss of material as a result of
adsorption or decomposition and due to changes in gas/particulate phase equilibria for volatile
species” and “These changes ... may preclude the accurate measurement of human exposure to

specific compounds without actual measurement of the compounds of interest.”

Given these complications, OSHA has to provide a quantifiable relationship between the
measured nicotine (or cotinine) levels and the ETS dose taken up. This relationship must specify

error limits in order to be applicable to safety procedures.

89TGE0Z902