INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

mw

To: ODr. G. R. DiMarco May 8, 1984
From: M. Stowe

Subject: R&D and PT&D Projects on Specially Processed
Tobaccos

Drs. Bernasek, Dickerson, and I have discussed the type of

R&D work which we feel should. be conducted as an extention of “=
the MaD Project. We recommend that work be undertaken in

R&D to 1) confirm the effect of this type of tobacco

processing on smoking characteristics, and 2) determine

which process(es) RJR should develop. An outline of the

project work and staffing which we recommend for 1984 is

attached.

Since further evaluation of blends ‘depends on the
availability of adequate quantities of the specially)
processed tobaccos, an attempt was made in late April to
produce cast reconstituted sheet at TMCI, Inc. The sample
arrived in R&D on Monday. If the smoking characteristics of
this material are judged to be acceptable (or close enough to
lead us to believe acceptable material can be made at TMCTY),
then the R&D program outlined on the attached document should
be feasible for 1984. If this is not the case, the timetable
will be lengthened cansiderably. ,

Recommended staffing for the R&D project is shown on the
project outline. The appropriate Managers have been
contacted to determine that temporary assignment of the staff
indicated to this project is possible if you approve this
commitment of R&D manpower. Because his time is heavily
committed to work on TGA, Dr. Casey is not included in the
project staffing. Dr. Dickerson had indicated that a
limited amount of his time would be available for
consultation, and I will ask Dr. Lloyd if such an
arrangement will still be possible.

A major objective for PT&D in 1984 should be to establish
facilities for the production of experimental quantities of
cast reconstituted sheet. This along with the planned
upgrading of the G7 Pilot Plant will put us in a position to
conduct process research on either ‘or both of these types of -
reconstituted sheet. Without such facilities, it will not
be possible to conduct research of :any quality on the

type of treatments needed. A memorandum is attached which
outlines the work which PT&D will conduct in support of this
project. ‘

Please let me know when you would like to discuss this
project.

. | ye Ho
XCz Dr. E. Bernasek dit
, Dr. J. P. Dickerson .
Mr. J. D. Phillips ; PF

Dr. Alan Rodgqman

6089 S8E0S