APR @3 '97 12:46 FR TO 12129875849 P.@6/66

_» ++ ~ Mr. Patrick Donoho Chwat & Company, Inc.

February 21, 1997
@ Page Two

As you may know, the NLBA recently negotiated the first-ever licensing agreement
with the three Performing Rights Groups (PROs), ASCAP, BMI and SESAC. This is an
exclusive agreement with the NLBA which provides, for some NLBA members, total
exclusion from paying license fees to the PRO’s. For other NLBA members, the amount
they pay will be reduced. We expect many licensees who are not currently members of
the NLBA to seek membership if, for no other reason, to escape or reduce the amount
they pay in licensing fee’s, in favor of a modest membership fee to the state NLBA
affiliate. We are working with the PROs to give this landmark agrecment maximum
media coverage.

To-date, we have established new state affiliates in Florida, Georgia, West
Virginia, Rhode Island, Tennessee, Louisiana, Arkansas, Oklahoma, Utah, Nebraska, and
Colorado. We are also assisting our organizing groups in Connecticut, Virginia, North
Carolina, Kentucky, Alabama, Mississippi, Missouri, and Texas, and expect to affiliate
these states within the next several months. We have not yet targeted Maine, New
Hampshire, Delaware, Massachusetts, Vermont, South Carolina, Kansas, New Mexico,
Idaho, North Dakota, Nevada or Hawaii, but expect to initiate organizing activities later
in 1997 and 1998, The emphasis at this stage of Campaign 2000 is membership
recruitment.

{ think you will agree, when Campaign 2000 is completed, the NLBA will stand
as the premier representative of licensed beverage retailers in the United States, with an
extensive network throughout the bar, tavern, restaurant, nightclub, package store, hotel,
gambling and resort communities. As you know, these are some of the same constituents
who have an interest in tobacco related issues.

J hope this broad overview of Campaign 2000 gives you a better understanding of
what we are doing to significantly increase the size of the NLBA and, correspondingly,
the power of its influence at the state and national level. My staff and T look forward to
a fuller discussion of Campaign 2000 with you and your staff, and perhaps an exploration
of what we might do together.

_ tw9vezg90z

2 TOTAL PAGE.@6 40k