+

PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: -Colon Rowe Date: July 31, 1989
From: -Dick Howe

Subject: .Nicotine Overspray

Enclosed please find a draft cf the Job Safe Procedure for the over-
spray of nicotine on cut filler or like material. In accordance with our
previous discussions and with your approval, we developed this procedure for
your explosion-proof room in Semiworks. We feel this offers several
advantages to the small scale room previously considered. One is the
obvious increase in safety from fire or explosion. In addition, it is more
isolated from other work and we feel the drying can be done in the same room
to avoid transporting the tobacco cutside.

The installation of the spray cylinder and valving/reservoir unit in
the explosion proof room is underway. A hole will need to be drilled
through to the adjacent room (primary) to install the spray unit control
system which is not spark-proof. A window is to be added to the door of the
explosion- proof room (not to exceed 100 sq.in.) to allow visual contact
with the inside worker and the spray cylinder operation. This will allow
the backup team to be in standby mode (not “on air").

Johnny Jones and Linda Guinn of EEP have assured me that the window in
the door and the hole drilled through the wall can be properly sealed to
maintain the explosion proof integrity of the room. K.H. Cho and Mike
Penn are arranging to install a Class A, Division I (spark-proof)
cylinder rotating motor with belt drive instead of chain drive and an
airline lockout system for added safety. We simply need to ensure that the
electrical conduit used for installation meets the same criteria.

This procedure is now scheduled to use nicotine free. base dissolved
in ethanol instead of nicotine citrate. Our procedure was written to cover
both contingencies.

To the best of my knowledge this experiment is planned for August
7, 1989. We plan to spray filler with alcohol first - as a “dry run” for
our procedure and for use as a control sample for the research. Then we
intend to spray one batch of filler with nicotine at the 2.15% loading level
(filler analysis) which is designed to deliver the" middle” level in smoke
required for the research. This experiment will be conducted very slowly
with many samples taken to help define the hazards and safety precautions
necessary. Extra safety precautions will be taken during this first run
which may be deemed unneccessary upon review of the procedure and in light
of the analysis data and the experience of handling the tobacco produced.
The room may be needed all week.

The remaining three sprayings scheduled are to be done August 14, 1989
and August 15, 1989 if needed. As soon as the tobacco is properly dried and

62P9E8bc07