medical evidence, none of us would smoke. But that would mean New York state would not
get all the aX cmoney it wants. (Steve Dunleavy, New tak Post) bi.

   
 

[Oklahoma] Teens join to combat smoking

The Edmond Memorial High School senior is a member of Students Working Against
Tobacco (SWAT), and she has learned much about the effects of smoking on teens and the
deceitful devices cigarette manufacturers go to recruit young smokers.

She said tobacco manufacturers spend millions each year in marketing and advertising to
appeal to youngsters. They try to convince kids they will look smarter, prettier and sexier" with
cigarettes, or "look hot riding on a horse" like the Marlboro Man.

SWAT has chapters throughout the Oklahoma City area, in other parts of Oklahoma and
throughout the nation. Locally, they are sponsored by the state Health Department.

One SWAT chapter, with grant money, produced the now-familiar television commercial that
counts body bags of dead smokers. (NewsOK) Link <htto./Avww.newsok.com/cgi-
bin/show_article?I|D=8 15466&TP=getarticle>.

INTERNATIONAL
Brazil to Scare Smokers with Pictures on Packs

SAO PAULO - Brazil will become this week the second country in the wortd to attach anti-
smoking pictures on cigarette packages reminding smokers of the damage they do to their
health every time they light up.

The move is the Brazilian (news - web sites) government's latest tough stance against
smoking after it made history by banning cigarette advertisements in newspapers and on
television and made it illegal to smoke in public places.

Brazil's 30 million smokers, out of its total population of 170 million, will see an array of small

pictures and messages warning them against their vice. (Reuters) Link.

[Canada - Opinion] Selling smokers, down the river

People don't need to be defended in their capacity as smokers: They need to be defended in
their capacity as citizens. Canadians need protection from the state, not as consumers of
nicotine, but simply as consumers. Also, as proprietors or employees. They need protection
from the authorities so they can choose the conditions under which they wish to work, eat,
drink and relax, whether they're smokers or non-smokers -- something people used to take for
granted until about 20 years ago. (George Jonas, National Post) Link.

 

[Canada - Opinion] 'Twas a strange national non-smoking week

For a smoker, Ralph's new tax on cigarettes is easily the equivalent to the promised health
care premium increases, probably more. It will raise, literafly, hundreds of millions of extra
dollars. He says all this extra dough should go only to health care. Sure. Whatever. But let's
not forget there's already $4 of pure tax on every pack. Where was that money going before
last week?

Now, there's talk of more taxes on alcohol too. Alberta already gets over half a billion from
alcohol, so why not a few hundred million more? What sinner has the nerve to complain? Oh,
hell, why not put a whopping tax on wine and beer. If you only drink a thimble of sherry at
Christmas, who cares? (Edmonton Sun) Link <httn./ww.canoe.ca/Columnists/graham.btnl>

[Canada] Smoke & minors; Community centre skirting butt ban, say Garden
City kids

COPELZSSOS