Looking for an average city, Brown & Williamson s choice to try out its new product here
teaffirms the area s popularity as a test market.

Even now, cigarette-making giant Brown & Williamson is selling a brand of low-toxin
cigarettes called Advance in the Indianapolis market to gauge if the brand is nationally viable.

Marketers and marketing experts say Indianapolis is often a good spot for test runs, mainly
because it mirrors the national average in several key ways and isn't too close to another
. ; a

large city. (Indianapolis Star) Link <
feststory28 html. business>

[Indiana] Infant death rate hits record low here

Marion County's historically high infant-mortality rate has dropped to its lowest recorded level,
and health officials plan to use a $3.6 million grant to ensure the trend continues.

The grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services -- $900,000 per year
during the next four years -- will provide programs for at-risk pregnant women in Marion
County, including those who smoke.

Smoking during pregnancy is a significant contributor to prematurity and low birth weight,
which rank among the leading causes of infant death. (The Indianapolis Star) Link.

[Indiana] Health groups blast tobacco firm's efforts

Brown & Williamson has fired up local public health groups since early November, when it
began test marketing a new brand of "lower-toxin” cigarettes.

While Brown & Williamson says it is being responsible by trying to reduce the concentration
of carcinogens and harmful chemicals in its Advance cigarettes, health advocates say they're
just trying to keap more people smoking by assuaging their health concerns.

“It's just another marketing ploy,” said Karla Sneegas, executive director of indiana Tobacco

Prevention and Cessation. (Indianapolis Star) Link <http.
>

{lowa] Budget shortfalis key to this week's agenda

DES MOINES - lowa lawmakers will spend much of this week grappling with a pair of
heavyweight budget problems - a shortfall in the state's Medicaid program and the fate of
state aid to public schools.

Vilsack proposed covering the immediate shortfall by transferring money from Jowa's legal
settlement with tobacco companies and other funds. He also banks on hopes that the federal
govemment will come through with more dollars.

With regard to next year, Lamberti said no options have been dismissed, including re-
evaluating how lowa spends its tobacco settlement funds. Lamberti contends, for instance,
that $9 million annually for anti-smoking efforts might be too much. (Mason City Globe-
Gazette) Link <http: >

[Massachusetts] Legislative leaders eye tax hikes; Cigarette levy, rollback delay
weighed; clash with Swift likely

Democratic legislative leaders are laying the groundwork for tax increases this year, which
would set up an election year showdown with Acting Governor Jane Swift.

Senate President Thomas F. Birmingham, who supports delaying the voter-approved income
tax rollback and raising the cigarette tax, will rally support for both moves in the Senate this
spring. Birmingham said he won't rule out other tax increases if members support them.
(Boston Globe) Link.

n//DOSTON =|

     
   

O9PeZzss0z

[Massachusetts] Swift sticks by stance on tax cut despite poll
5