The city's claim of near-perfect tobacco-law compliance is nothing but a smokescreen, a
group of West Kildonan kids say. One of the main offenders hiding behind Winnipeg's ‘cloudy
new regulations, they charge, is Garden City Community Centre.

A"Smoking Permitted" sign at an entrance to an office at the Kingsbury Avenue facility hasn't
gone unnoticed to Aaron Yanofsky since the anti-tobacco bylaw kicked in Jan. 1. But he
hasn't been able to find managers to remind them the law requires community clubs to butt
out. (Manitoba, Winnipeg Sun) Link <htto./Avww.canoe.ca/WinnipegNews/ws,ws-01-28-
0005. himi>

[Japan] Move to keep bus stops smoke-free

The Tokyo metropolitan government is trying to discourage smokers from lighting up at bus
stops | in what could be the first step of a campaign to eradicate smoking from alt public places
in the capita

Stickers issued by the Bureau of Transportation are being posted at stops for metropolitan
buses asking those who are waiting to refrain from smoking.

Bungaku Watanabe, director of the Tobacco Problems Information Center, a
nongovemmental organization that publicizes the risks of smoking, said he hoped the no-
smoking campaign at bus stops would spread throughout Japan. (Asahi Shimbum) Link_
<i ” >.

[Pakistan] Around 37m cigarettes produce in Pakistan

A regional consultation of the WHO held in Malta recently has recognized the use of tobacco
as one of the greatest threats to public health in the Mediterranean region and called upon all
member states and governments to protect the health of their citizens, particularly children
and other vulnerable groups, from the negative health, economic and social impacts of
tobacco use.

Approximately 16,000 new cases of jung cancer were detected every year among men as
tobacco was consumed in many forms in the country: cigarettes, paan, biri etc it said.

Smoking is the only cause behind 40 per cent of ail cancer cases in the country another study
of Bhurgry et al, estimated that 65,000 persons were suffering from cancers of all kind in the
country , out of which at least 40% (26,000) were attributable directly to cigarette. “smoking.
(Frontier Post) of

[Turkey] Majors Seek JV with Turkish Tobacco, Liqueur Co -Paper

ISTANBUL -- Turkey's state tobacco and liqueur monopoly Tekel is receiving joint venture
offers from international majors, Tekel's General Manager Mehmet Akbay said, Turkish daily
Sabah reported Monday.

In an interview with Sabah, Akbay said those who have expressed an interest in forming a
joint venture include the U.K.'s Imperial Tobacco, Germany's Reemtsma, Spanish-French
Altadis, and other majors like British American Tobacco, Diaego PLC and France's Pernot
Ricard.

Akbay said the ofers involve joint manufacturing or marketing.

The paper also quoted Yilmaz Karakoyunlu, state minister in charge of Tekel, that the
government is open to joint venture offers and that the international interest may speed up
‘Tekel's planned privatization. (Dow Jones Newswires) Link.

on , 4 Ney A Ca qe

 

TURKEY: Privatisation will cost 8,000 jobs

Turkish union chiefs have suggested that the privatisation the country's alcohol and tobacco
monopoly, Tekel, will make some 8,000 workers redundant. (just-drinks.com) [Complete]

[UK] Arndale to ban smoking

E9PELzsosoz