Responding to Sunday's Boston Globe/WBZ-TY poll that indicated voters disapprove of her
position on taxes and her job performance, Acting Governor Jane Swift said she is
determined to stand by her convictions. (Boston Globe) Link

chtto: f on

shtml>

[New York - EDITORIAL] Let's use butt bucks on smoking

About $70 million earmarked for counties rolled into New York state this week as part of the
latest payment in the court settlement between the nation's tobacco industry and states.

Without mandates to control spending, county teaders really can't be blamed for using
tobacco money to ease the burden on taxpayers, especially in today's tough fiscal times.
That's why it's so important for the American Lung Association of New York and other groups
to apply moral pressure on counties to do right with their tobacco checks.

We urge areas counties to get back on track and use the tobacco money for 2003 on
programs related to smoking and its victims. (Oneonta Daily Star) Link.
< ¥ >

[Maryland - Opinion] Proposed ban would smoke tourism

Maryland banned smoking in offices several years ago. That was a good move. Most of us
have to work, and we shouldn't be subjected to toxic irritants when we can't walk away.

But a ban on smoking in restaurants and bars is a ridiculous example of social engineering.
Yet, as Keith T. Reed reported in his Retail & E-Commerce column last week, state Del.
Barbara A. Frush, D-Prince George's, has introduced a bill that would make it illegal to light
up in taverns or eateries.

Smoking restrictions do play a role in the decisions of meeting planners. Baltimore and
Maryland can't afford to lose entertainment dollars just because legislators want to take a
moral high road against cigarettes. (Baltimore Business Journal) Link.

shttp://baltimore. bcentral.cormn/baltimore/stories/2002/01/28/editorial3. htmi>

[Missouri / Kansas} Bottom line may flat-line life sciences budgets

Missouri and Kansas face the worst budget situation in years. The session has just gotten
under way, and already lawmakers are looking for things to cut so they can adequately pay
for vital state services.

Business, civic and research leaders had hoped to receive state tobacco settlement dollars
for life sciences research and increased support for research infrastructure at the University
of Missouri-Kansas City, the University of Kansas and the University of Kansas Medical
Center, but their hopes are dimming for this year.

Last year, Holden earmarked $21.5 million of the tobacco settlement for life sciences
research initiatives, and legislators allocated $30 million from the state's budget for a
research building on the UMKC campus. This money has yet to be released, and local
leaders fear legislators will pull both allocations back to cover the state's deficit. (The
Business Journal of Kansas City) Link _

< >

[New York - Opinion] ALBANY BURNS US WITH SMOKING TAX

| COUGH and wheeze and splutter from the evil of tobacco. | wish to quit cigarettes. But you
find no citizen of New York state more patriotic than |. As a patriot, | must keep on smoking.

We've been told the tax on cigarettes will go up - dramatically - to keep Albany running. The
politicians up there made our tax money go up in smoke. And now it's the responsibility of we
smokers to make up the deficit.

You - the leaders of our government - tell us smoking is wrong, it's bad for health, and it can
kill you. But now we have a situation where, if you don't smoke and don't pay more taxes,
you're not being good to the state of New York. In other words, if we took any notice of

6

berel7seoe