advertisement in The New York Times blasted independent filmmaker Todd Fields for
gratuitously promoting cigarettes in the movie, by letting the camera caress the Marlboro
package and the dialogue repeat the Marlboro name.

"No one associated with the film received any compensation from (Philip Morris) or any other
tobacco company,” Matthew Hiltzik, head of corporate communications, said in a telephone
interview.

Glantz challenges filmmakers like Fields to think carefully before they depict any characters
smoking in a movie, But, to his credit, Glantz isn't looking for censorship. He thinks films such
as "In the Bedroom” should certify onscreen that they did not accept any tobacco company
money. That's not a bad idea. (The Oregonian) Link.

 

EDITORIAL: New delivery, old drug

President Bush s Justice Department announced last spring that it was unwilling to press the
government s years-long, health-care driven suit against the industry, but the president can
show he was more interested in a fair settlement than total surrender by supporting the
request that the FDA oversee these new products.

And what fine products they are. A Tic-Tac-size lozenge made from compressed tobacco
powder is being test-marketed in Richmond, Va., and Dallas. Nicotine Water, said to contain
the nicotine of two cigarettes, is now available on the Internet. A supposedly safer cigarette
that advertises with the slogan All of the taste & less of the toxin is being test marketed in
various cities, as is a cigarette that heats rather than burns tobacco and is claimed by its
producers to be a sophisticated technologically advanced nicotine delivery system that may
present smokers with less risk of cancer. (Bangor Daily News) Link.

<http:/Avww. bangornews. com/editoriainews/article, him 9=49818>

STATE
[Georgia] Anti-tobacco budget draws fire

Georgia so far has collected more than $352 million of an approximately $4.8 billion
settlement that is being paid out over 25 years. Last year alone, the state received $151.8
million. More than $20.7 million has been set aside for tobacco prevention this year, but the
CDC has recommended that Georgia set aside closer to $42.6 million.

Georgia also has hired tobacco-use-prevention coordinators for each of the state's 19 health
districts, Lord said, Those coordinators are supporting statewide tobacco prevention
programs and can tailor them to fit each specific district, he said. Smoking among Georgia
high school students has declined by 30 percent in the past three years, he added.

Of the $20.8 million in settlement money earmarked for tobacco prevention in Georgia in
2002, $4.6 million is going to the 19 public health districts, according to the report issued
jointly Jan. 15 by the Gampaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, the American Cancer Society, the
American Heart Association and the American Lung Association. (Atlanta Business
Chronicle) Link <http: i >

[Hawaii] Council smoking vote this week

The Honolulu City Council intends to vote Wednesday of this week on a proposal to ban
smoking in most Oahu restaurants.

A compromise proposal that cleared committee earlier this month would take effect July 1,
making exceptions for fully-enclosed bars that have their owns separate ventilation systems.

The bill would also exempt open-air areas of restaurants separated from 10-foot buffers or
floor-to-ceiling walls. The smoking area of Mariposa at Neiman Marcus, for example, already

qualifies. (Pacific Business News) Link ‘dail
<http://pacific. bcentral.com/pacific/stories/2002/01/28/daily3.html>

[Indiana] Indianapolis is test market for new cigarettes

4

ESVELTSs02