THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC.

 

SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 THIRD AVENUE
New York, NY 10022

@ . (212) 421-RB85

JAMES F, GLENN, M.D,
CHAIKMAN AND PRESIDENT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

April 18, 1996

Gerald Siu, M.D., Ph.D
Department of Microbiology
Columbia University

Health Sciences

701 W. 168th Street

New York, NY 10032

Re: Grant No. 3968R2
Dear Dr. Siu:

The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A., Inc. (CTR), is please! to offer you a renewal
grant in the amount of $90,000.00, including indirect costs, for the period from July 1, 1996
through June 30, 1997 for the proposed study: "A Study of Factors that Control T-cell Specific:
Gene Expression during Lymphocyte Development." It is understood that this grant is made
subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. We recognize that this appropriation is
somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a productive
level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit the enclosed revised
budget sheet to show how the available funds will be distributed. Also, many applications to

@ CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with submissions to other agencies. If the latter result
in awards, we should be notified promptly so that we can negotiate an appropriate adjustment of
our award.

Since this award will conclude the three years originally programmed for the project, it is
considered terminal for the project and a comprehensive final report is expected after completion
and reprints of any current or future papers resulting from research supported by the award must
be submitted. ,

Please review the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for << antees.” Please fill in
the attached “Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Contact Drs. George Hashim or
Donald Ford of our scientific staff on matters concerning your graat and keep us informed about
the progress of your study.

The enclosed statement of “Financial Requirements” indicates that the Council recovers
unexpended annual balances over $1,000 and that year end deficits cann * be recovered from
CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our faiture to receive timely
financial statements from your grants office will stop further payments. Appropriate forms will
be sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems are
relatively rare and we hope that this will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Sincerely, My.

e James F, Glenn, M.D.

cc: Tuyet A. Tran
JFG:mnvVenclosures