&

DIET MATERIALROUND
TO AFFECT THE BRAIN

Discovery Is Already in Use, With
Promising Results, in Treating
One Widespread Disorder

 

 

By HAROLD M. SCHIMECK Jr,

A common dietary substance found in| -

eggs, meat and fish has surprisingly di-
yect and almost immediate effects on
brain function, scientists at Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology have found.

Their discovery has already been used,
with promising results, in treating one
widespread and disabling brain disorder.
Research is in progress to see if the com-
mon food substance called choline might
also be useful in other brain conditions,
including depression and the memory de-
fects that are am important factor in se-
nility.

All of these efforts stem from the dis-
covery a few years ago that choline
passes into the blood from food in the

_ digestive tract, is taken up directly by
‘the brain from the circulating blood. and
is used to help the brain make an impor-

. tant chemical transmitter of nerve sig-

, tals, On an hour-to-hour basis the
amount of the nerve signal transmitter
in the brain seems to depend on how

* ruuch choline-rich food the individuel has
eaten recently, :

“This is very sirange,” said Dr. Richard
3, Wurtman at an interview in his labora-
tory in Cambridge, Mass. “because
means that the composition of each meal
will directly affect the synthesis of
chemical signals in the brain.” .

For years it had been generally believed
that something called the blood-brain
barrier protecied the brain from direct
effects of substances either lacking or

‘excessive in a day-to-day diet. Only a
few things, notably alcohol and some

powerful drugs such as the narcotics,|°

were thought to be exceptions,
Gaps in the Barrier

Recent discoveries show that the blood
. brain barrier has more gaps than had
been thought, Thus, the person who eats

a large omelet with its high choline con-
% will within a few hours have en
oly of the nerve signal trastamite
i6f Calied Guetyicholine in the brain.

This, according te Dr. Wurtman, wilt
mean an amplification of the nerve sig.
nals sent from one nerve cell to the next
by those cells that use acetylcholine for'
the signaling.

The possible effects of this on behavior
are being studied. , . sees

  
  
 

 

i

 

 

New York Times January 26, 1978

“the main practical consequence thet
has emerged from the work to date is
in the treatment of a common disorder
called tardive dyskinesia. This is a condi-

‘tion that develops in many mental pa-
> tients under regular treatment with either

of the two main classes of antipsychotic!

’ rophenones, These drugs are used to calm

‘ drugs, the phenothiezines or the buty-;
1

the patients and free them from the acute!

symptoms of their mental illness.

After months or years of taking these:

" drugs, patients often develop uncontrolla-

" use of the antipsychotic drugs is discon-

. tlon probably affects many thousands of

* prolonged periods.

‘ soon as Dr. Wurtman and a graduate
, student, Edith L. Cohen, published a re-

‘to a tardive dyskinesig patient to see|

__ ment in their dyskinesia symptoms.

ble jecking movements of the upper body
and limbs, facial grimaces and bizarve
movements of the tongue. This is the
characteristic pattern of tardive dyskine-;
aa Psychologically Crippling ©

For a person already handicapped by
the problems of mental illness these bi-
zarre movements can he psychologically
crippling. Yet there has been no effective;
treatment for the condition and it has
sometimes been permanent even when

tinued. One recent report said that as
many as 40 percent of elderly, chronically|
hospitalized mental patients using the
drugs suffered from tardive dyskinesia
and that it could be found in 3 percent

or more of a mixed population of mental| ,

patients, including the young.
Those figures indicate thet the ‘condi-

Americans whe have taken the drugs for

The condition apparently results from
a failure of brain nerve cells to release
enough acetylcholine. For that reason, as

port indicating that rats’ brains producd
extta amounts of the transmitter when
they had extra choline in the blood, doo-
tors at Stanford University fed choline

if it would hety, It did.

Last fali, Dr. Wurtman and three col-
leagues, Dr. John H. Growdon, Madelyn
Hirsch and Dr. William Wiener, published
the results of a carefully controlled study
in the New England Journal of Medicine,
reporting that nine patients fed choline
for two weeks showed major improve-

 

50265293

"Some Believed More Complex

the group of patients included some
whose conditions stemmed from some-
thing more complex than the classic tar-'
dive dyskinesia. ~ .

.. In current studies, the grouy in Boston
is substituting the choline-rich food suh-

stance lecithin for choline.
"The richest source of leclthin in the
: didt, according to Dr. Wurtmen’s wife,)
. Dr, Judith Wurtman, is egg yolk, 7 is

also found in the American diet as a

, widespresd and increasingly used food

additive. It is a good enwisifier and has
other properties useful in commercially
prepared cakes, gravies, salad dressings,
beverage mixes and chocolate-covered
candies. Commercial lecithin contains
about 2 percent to 4 percent choline, Dr.

’ Judith Wortman estimates.

No comparable hypotheses have arisen
yet from the choline studies, but scien-
tists at several institutions are studying
possible ways in which this chemical can

_ be used to help the human brain.

Pursuing a clue concerning the chemis-
try of memory, for example, Dr, David

* Drachman of the University of Massachu-

setts at Worcester, is trying choline as

4 possible help in preventing memory loss’

among persons suffering from cerlain
kinds of senility. .
Following another clue, Dr, John Davis

of the University of Chicago has been;
gesting the effects of choline in two;

taajor types of mental illness, the sorme-
times related manic and depressive
states. He is working on the hypothesis
that beth conditions result fram derange-
ment of a balance between two important
nerve signal transmitters, norepinephrine
and acetylcholine, with choline too high
in depression and norepinephrine too
high in mania. :

we
E
Gne patient’s symptoms were made!
worse and 10 others showed no change.)

- Dr. Wurtman believes this indicates that

'
t
i