REVIEW & OUTLOOK
Rethinking Risk

 

When the new Republican Con-
gress convenes in January, one of the
top priorities ought to be relling back
what Lamar Alexander calls the
“Waxman State’’—the torrent of rues
and reguiations enacted into law by
the likes of Congressman Henry Wax-
man (D., Hollywood}. This is an espe-
cially pressing priority in the environ-
mental arena, where Congress and
various executive branch agencies
have spent years passing onerous
rules to deal with negligible or nonex-
istent risks.

Environmental regulation is the
source of much public outrage nowa-
days. Often the rules are a tangled
meéss because Congress's underlying

legisiation vas complex in its goals °

and impossibly vague in how to meet
those goals. The real rule-making was
left to the bureaucracies, which in
(urn produced their own Rube Gold-
bergian complexity. Now comes evi-
dence from a most unlikely source—
the government itself~to support the
contention that environmental spend-
ing bears little if any relation to the
real risks faced dy the public.

—» The Department of Energy has

just released a report titled ‘“‘Choices
in Risk Assessment,’ prepared by
a Nonprofit Teseareh group. The
agency has good reason to study the
subject: It could spend $300 billion to
S1 trillion over the next 36 years
cleaning up waste sites. Does the sci-
entific policy behind those cleanups—
and other federal actions—stand up
to scrutiny?

The report delivers some clear an-
swers: ‘Most environmental risks are
so smail or indistinguishable that
their existence cannot be proven,”
Scientific policy is “inherently biased
and can be designed to achieve prede-
términed regulatory outcomes.'’ “‘Pol-
i¢ymakers, the media and the public
are unaware of the role of science pol-
iey because of a lack of full and fair
@sclosure.”"

* Consider just one example: the Oc-
cupational Safety and Eealth Admin-
istration is now proposing sweeping
indoor air-quality regulations that
would inciude a ban on all workplace
smoking. But according to “Choices,"*
a-major part of this policy—estimated
to.cost the private sector $8 billion an-
oally—is based on a one-page, hand-
written chart that has never been pub-
lished or peer-reviewed.

The “Chaices'' report praises the
government for not banning the fluo-

ridation of water, unleaded gasoline !
and used oil. for which some evidence |
of risk exists, but which on balance do
far more good than harm, The report
asks why similar decisions haven’t
been reached about other alleged dan-
gers. For example, when the EPA
tried to ban asbestos, it took into ac-
count only the product’s hypothetical!
cancer risk—not the many lives that
would be lost if nonasbestos brakes
are substituted on cars,

There's simply no rhyme or reason
behind federal environmental policy.
Even the ‘‘one chance in a million”
standard used by many agencies to
define a minimum level of cancer risk
tums out to have no scientific basis.
Kathryn Kelly, a Seattle environmen-

 

tal consultant, reports in the newslet-
ter EPA Watch that this standard was
basically plucked out of a hat by the
FDA in the 1970s to regulate animal
drug residues. Now it's employed for
everything from hazardous waste
sites to pesticides—even though scien-
tists have generaily concluded that
risks of Iess than one in a thousand

can’t even be quantified. i

‘It’s insane that we're spending
hundreds of billions of dollars chasing
imagined risks,” Steve Milloy, author
of.“Choices,” tells us.

The road to sanity starts with more
rational risk/cost-benefit analysis.
Bills to accomplish that goal were in-
troduced in the last Congress but got
nowhere because of opposition from
Democratic barons. Now that there
are new Kings of the Hill, swift action
is expected on this front.

But the new Republican majority

should be careful about the language
‘be

of cost-benefit bills. As “Choices”
points out, many risk-analysis ideas
have already been implemented via
executive order—to no effect. What's
needed ts legislation with teeth—set
out clearly what standards bureau-
crats should follow, and give compa- :
nies and focal governments the right
to sue if regulators get out of line. GOP
Sen. Trent Lott. the new Majority
Whip. has introduced a draft proposal
along these lines, and Rep. Dan Mica
(R., Fla.) will probably follow suit.

Passage of their plans would be a
first step toward dismantling the
crushing cost burden of the Waxman
State, which surely played aroleinthe !
voters’ recent decision to part ways
with the Democratic Party. The
party’s public tastes simply had be-
come too expensive,

 

LTV = $661 ‘9 UGAWAOTA ‘AVASIAL TWNUNOS LATULS VIVA DRL

o9SPOrrLoZ