Exhibit III

DESCRIPTION OF AVAILABLE SAMPLING TECHNIQUES

* Environmental: Highly-targeted distribution in locations with
a well-defined demographic composition. Primarily night
clubs, discos, apartment complexes, generally late at night.
Primary penetration against young adults in an environment
where image-building promotions can be conducted to increase/
reinforce sampling effectiveness. Most effective means of
targeting against young adults in locations where smoking
incidence and competitive usage is great. Experience to date
indicates a screening process can effectively lead the consumer

through up to 9 brand styles to reach the brand he is most likely
to smoke.

* Selective Intercept: ‘Locations are selected to provide some
degree of targeting demographically and geographically. De-
gree of targeting can be flexible depending on profile of
prime prospect of brand being sampled and on size of market.
Selective locations would include suburban shopping centers,
bowling alleys, factory and office park complexes, sporting
events, recreation areas, etc. Experience to date indicates
a screening process can effectively lead the consumer through

up to 9 brand styles to reach the brand he is most likely to
smoke.

* Mass Intercept: Method most suitable in building quick aware-
ness and trial on a new or improved brand introduction. Sam-
Ples delivered primarily on high-traffic pedestrian inter-
sections in downtown areas. Some coverage of major shopping
malls in larger markets. Little targeting opportunity: dupli-
cation is a problem as a consumer walks from corner to corner.
Most effective with single brand, regular and menthol, with
minimal screening.

* Retailer Distributed Samples: Primary use is to increase the
reach and depth of a promotion program by distributing sam-
ples in high volume package outlets (primarily convenience
stores reaching a high incidence of young adult males). Pro-
vides effective/efficient penetration of geographic/demographic
smoker groups not likely to receive samples distributed through
other techniques. Display containers of 4's are placed at out-
lets selected by field sales, and are generally a one time offer.
Most efficient manner of distributing sample 4's. Experience
is limited to a single brand style; judgmentally, however,
could work effectively with a combination of styles, i.e.,
regular or menthol, 85's or 100's.

* Request Sampling: A technique in which a sample mail-in offer
is placed adjacent to or in a brand ad. It offers the reader
an opportunity to receive a free pack or more of that brand
by completing and mailing the postage-paid card. Consumer
fills in card with name and mailing address, certifies his
age is 21 or over, and identifies the brand he currently
smokes. Especially beneficial for brands with a well-defined
prime prospect (not broad appeal) where the steps required
tend to eliminate smokers with little interest in the brand.
Also, selection of media can target promotion demographically/
geographically.

LnLs 6100S