Ce

Se pte TS et ertate g 6 oo Ee gegen Ne ft ER RE ET a A ee ey ie ge ope cep ne +

 

* A low BDI versus high BDI test of the above program will
determine whether we should weight sampling more toward
our stronger or weaker markets for future WINSTON/SALEM

sampling.

* The home-delivered sampling and extended sampling will
determine whether we can more deeply and more effectively
penetrate a market.

* The home-delivered approach will determine the value of
follow-up personal selling and sampling to known competi-
tive smokers. This approach can support the entire RJR
product line.

* The extended sampling test will measure the combined
effectiveness of repetitive sampling, treated as a
campaign, along with broader reach sampling conducted
opportunistically.

* Finally, performance will be evaluated for each test
brand among key demographic groups -- prime prospects
and young adults.

Based on results from this study, we will recommend a
Phase II study to refine our understanding of how to
improve sampling's effectiveness through:

* varying the sample quantity; above four cigarettes,
* Adding different value coupons to the sample product,
* Combining advertising with the sample, and

° Determining the optimum timing for sampling = a new
brand.~

If funds are available, we will conduct this research
during the second half of 1979.

A statement on 1980 sampling direction will be published
early next month.

An analysis of new brand sampling learning will be published
in June. This will include CAMEL LIGHTS research and busi-
ness analysis results. To avoid confusion, one point will

be covered here. Successful new brands respond more favorably
to sampling than do our existing brands. Because of this
increased responsiveness, sample 4's are sometimes more
efficient in converting smokers than are 20's.

We will recommend revisions to the sampling executional
guidelines after the new brand sampling analysis is com-
pleted. These revisions will cover established brands
and new brands.

CHLS 6LO00S