<b

EXHIBIT II
OO May 31, 1979

Market Research Report #77-1290

Promotion Department Perspective

SUBJECT: ESTABLISHED BRAND SAMPLING STUDY

This provides the Promotion Department's perspective on the attached
Corporate Sampling research report. It positions the study, draws
key conclusions on sampling in support of established brands, and
focuses on indicated action.

This learning is being applied to established brand sampling
Planning.

Background

The primary role of promotion is to gain trial of our brands by
competitive brand smokers. The purpose of this trial is to support
follow-up purchase and regular usage among the competitive triers.

In 1977 the Company was relying solely on couponing to promote
trial on our existing brands. We needed other promotion approaches
that could effectively gain trial, especially by younger adults and
males who are less likely to redeem coupons. Because of this, the
Promotion Department established an objective of learning how to
use sampling to improve our existing brand business. Sample 4's
were being used to support selected new brands.

This study was our initial effort to determine the effect of sam-
pling smokers with our existing brands. In order to gain an indi-
cation of the low side and high side potential of sampling, we
measured mass sampling, which we felt was inadequate, and a repre-
sentative high impact approach. Mass sampling intercepted pedes-
trians, reaching any adult accepting the sample (sample 4's and
full pack 20's. were used). The high impact approach selectively
sampled category smokers with a full carton or more by mail.

In reading this perspective and the attached research report, you
Should remember that the study does not measure sampling the way

we are conducting it now. Since the study was fielded we have
moved to sample 20's based on preliminary results from the study.
Also, on judgment, we commenced jointly sampling menthol and non-
menthol brands, and targeting styles to category smokers. The
study does provide information to confirm the value of the improve-~-
ments that were made and to identify further opportunities for
improvement.

Additional background is provided in the attached exhibits:

Exhibit I ~ Criteria for guiding sampling development.
Exhibit II - A summary of key pre-1977 sampling learning.
Exhibit III - Descriptions of available sampling approaches.

BELG BLO0S