L

Key Conclusions

1. We can, through improvements in our sam ling programs,

Significantly increase the effectiveness of samplin
over the levels obtained 5b ast sampling activity. The
most important improvements identified in this study are:

* The use of 20's on existing brands results in conversion

at a rate over three times greater than the level achieved

by 4's -- 1.3% vs. .4%.

* Sampling smokers who do not consider the sampled brand
their usual brand but who have purchased the brand in
the past results in conversion at seven times the rate
achieved among competitive smokers that have never pur-~
chased the brand —- 2.1% vs. .3%. our explanation for
this is: recent purchase is an indication of latent
interest in the brand among some smokers and a sampling

experience can move this interest over to brand preference.

The group of past purchasers is sizeable for most of our
brand styles.

* By targeting our sampling to category smokers, we can
increase the rate of conversion. Even targeting within
the broad non-menthol and menthol categories results in
respective conversion increases of 64% and 52%. While
the base sizes were too small to measure increases from
more precise targeting, we believe that the observed
increases can be enlarged considerably by directing
samples to sub-category smokers. The improvements should
be most pronounced on brands in small categories such as
Ultra Low Tars, menthol 100's, etc.

* Additional improvements can be made if we find a feasible
way to deliver our samples to non-RIR brand smokers only.
About 50% of previous mass intercept distributed samples
reached this group.

We can probably achieve many future effectiveness improve-
ments without any loss in efficiency, as measured by cost

ber smoker converting to the sampled brand. For example,
20's are about 60% more efficient than 4's.

There is a definite need to continue our efforts to improve
sampling effectiveness. The low absolute levels of conver-
sion (1.3% for 20's and 2.1% for 20's with prior purchase
targeting) establishes a sizeable upside potential. The
profit contribution of a regular smoker is between $50.00
and $80.00 per year. Asa result, even minor increases in

conversion can havea major positive effect on long-term
profitability.

Results from the one and four carton sampling among category
smokers suggests that we can continue to make major improve-
ments in effectiveness (respective conversion increases were

 

OnLs 6100S