om
‘w/

 

three and thirteen times greater than mass intercept 20's).
Because the 20's research is not directly comparable to the
carton information, these results are considered rough
indicators.

MORE can benefit most from increased romotion. Of all the
brands tested, MORE performed best Overall and is strongest
among non-RJR brand smokers. This experience, along with
MORE's strong performance in the recent Corporate Couponing
study and in coupon market testing clearly establishes that
the current MORE product and advertising support levels has
developed a higher business potential. This potential can
be exploited through increased spending on trial promotion
programs.

SALEM LIGHTS and SALEM King also performed better than average
among the test brands while WINSTON 100's, CAMEL Filter and
NOW performed below average. Since base size permitted indi-
vidual brand responsiveness to be accurately measured only
through the follow-up purchase stage, the menthol brands'
performance could be benefiting from occasional usage among
non-menthol smokers. The below average performance in a non-
targeted sampling effort of WINSTON 100's, CAMEL Filter, and
NOW, which are narrowly targeted brands, supports the belief
that category sampling will benefit narrowly targeted brands
the most.

Indicated Action

1.

2.

 

We should continue to execute the approved sampling programs,
using the appropriate flavor, length and strength screening.

We should gain practical experience with a screening approach
that selects the sampled brand based, at least partially, on
prior purchase experience. We will do this during the WINSTON/
SALEM sampling program. .

A separate recommendation for measuring the effectiveness of
three alternative sampling approaches has been approved. The
alternatives, which build on the learning from this study,

are: selectively sampling nine brand styles of WINSTON/SALEM,
home-delivered sampling, and extended sampling in-a market for
five months. Each variation samples at least nine brand styles,
screens smokers, targets samples and provides some degree of
smoker involvement. The alternatives will be read against each
other, and ano sample control. This testing will go into the
field in June.

These tests will provide consumer research measurements of
smoker reach, competitive smoker follow-up purchase and
conversion, and smoker attitudes toward the sampling programs.

* The basic WINSTON/SALEM sampling program will determine the
value of sampling 20's of the flavor, length and strength
preferred by each smoker.

 

LhiG¢ 6100S