nap

Necropsy included the examination of the following organs and tissues: 12 - £7
Thyroid/parathyroid ‘ Spleen Urinary Bladder ,
Esophagus/trachea Stomach Ovaries (females)
Thymus - . Intestines Uterus (females)
Heart _ Pancreas Testes (males)
Lung Kidneys Brain/pituitary
Liver . a Adrenals :

Results ~

Mortality = Cumulative mortality for the LDgqg study is presented in
Table 2. Total mortality data are presented graphically in Appendix. 1.

No deaths were observed at the 464, 681, or 1000 mg/kg dose levels. At
the 1470 mg/kg dose level, two males died by Day 3 and two females died within
3 hours of dosing. All animals dosed at the 2150 mg/kg dose level were dead
by Day” 2.

Clinical signs - Clinical signs are summarized in Table 3.

with the exception of lethargy observed on Day 1 in two females, no
clinical signs were observed in animals at the 464 mg/kg dose level.

: Lethargy was observed on Day 1 in all animals dosed at the 681 mg/kg dose
level. Except for one male, which appeared thin on Day 6, and one female with
a scab on the nose (Day 6) and a,stain on the nose (Days 7 and 1 8), all animals
were normal, by Day 2 and for the remainder of the study.

     

 

At the’ ‘1000 ng/kg dose level, lethargy was observed in all animals on
Day 1; -prostrat ion was also observed in two males. AW animals were normal by
Day 2 and for. the. remainder of the study. _— Boa ged

. Lethargy and prostrat ion were observed on Day 1 in all ‘animals dosed at
the 1470 mg/kg dose level. All surviving animals were normal by Day 2 and for
the remainder of the study, with the exception of one male and three females,
which were lethargic on Days 2 through 5. Lethargy and prostration were

CR in Kimalesg al

- observed prior to death in two found dead females." does “aier ty ar ak a males

mpd «fins froma ston 7
“At the 2150 mg/kg dose level lethargy and prostration were observed in
all surviving “animals on Day 1. Five animals died within 1 hour of dosing;
therefore, no clinical signs were recorded for these animals at the one-hour.
postdose observation interval. oo ve oa

  

®
©
WN
he
=

 
 
 

an

  

BLI #1599(3)