Preemption

 

Legislation in Illinois has been introduced to repeal the local preemption law and give localities
the authority to pass more stringent smoking restriction ordinances.

A Florida House committee has rejected a bill that would have repealed existing local
preemption of smoking restrictions. While a similar measure is still pending in the Senate, it
is unlikely that additional efforts to repeal preemption will take place this session.

 

The Michigan State Chamber of Commerce has formed a broad coalition made up of major
business interest throughout the state to promote legistation eliminating the ability of
localities from passing ordinances dealing with subjects already covered by state law {i.e.
preemption). Strong support for this effort is expected from local chambers and businesses.

A bill has been introduced in the Nevada Assembly and referred to the Judiciary Committee
that would repeal preemption and permit localities across the state to enact ordinances
dealing with the sales, marketing and use of tobacco products. The Morning Team is
executing a phone bank to deliver calls from retailers and business owners in the hospitality
industry to the 14 members of this committee. No hearing date has yet been set for the bill.

Product Liability

The Ohio Hospital Association is considering whether or not to sue tobacco manufacturers in
order to reclaim uncompensated-care expenses for tobacco-related illnesses.

A bill has been introduced in the California Senate that would permit a plaintiff to use
statistical compilation as evidence to show the alleged correlation between tobacco use and
resulting illnesses, and to show proof of causation and damages. The bill has not yet been
referred to committee.

Smoking Restrictions

The Maine Joint Committee on Health and Human Services has scheduled a hearing next
week on proposed legislation to ban smoking in restaurants statewide. Representatives of
the Maine Restaurant Association, as well as Portland restaurateurs that have been adversely
affected by that city’s ban, will testify. The committee will also hear a bill to ban vending
machine sales.

 

A bill was introduced in the New York Assembly that would ban smoking in certain
restaurants without bars and restrict smoking in restaurants with bars. The bill was referred
to the Assembly Committee on Health.

Two bills have been introduced in the California Assembly that would repeal the ban on
smoking in bars and taverns if proprietors met certain ventilation standards. In a newspaper
interview, the Senate President was quick to state his intention to kill these bills if they. make
it to the Senate.

 

LZBS 8561S