Marketing, Sales, Advertising Restrictions

 

The Illinois bill dealing with broad restrictions on minors, retailers, and focal marketing
preemption, was defeated in the House Judiciary Committee. The primary reason for its
failure was the stringent penalties for possession and use of tobacco products by minors.
Supporters of the bill plan to make changes to the penalties’ section and attempt to address
the issue again.

An lowa house bill restricting the sampling of tobacco products was reported from the Senate
Human Resources Committee. The legislation bans free products and gifts in an offer for sale
involving cigarettes and tobacco products.

Two sampling bills are active in Kansas. One is a total ban, while the other bill would require
the manufacturer doing the sampling to give the state four weeks written notice before
beginning. Current law says sampling cannot take place where under 18 year olds are
allowed or within 500 feet of any school.

A bill was introduced in the New York Assembly that would ban the sale of tobacco products
through any computer communication system unless the product was delivered to the
purchaser at a licensed retail tobacco outlet. It was referred to the Assembly Committee on
Economic Development, Job Creation, Commerce and Industry.

In the New York Senate, a bill was introduced that would prohibit the advertising of tobacco
products within 1,000 feet of schools. The bill was referred to the Senate Committee on
Health.

A Washington Senate bill that would ban self-service displays was passed in the Senate
Health Committee and could now go to either the Commerce or Rules Committee. The bill
was introduced at the request of the Attorney General. The corresponding House bill died in
committee this week.

The Idaho House bill that would amend the current vendor assisted law to permit “store in a
store” marketing of tobacco products with self-service displays was passed by the House.
The bill now goes to the Senate State Affairs Committee, where it will likely meet stiff
opposition since the Senate President Pro Tem, who authored the bill for the current law last
year, sits on that committee.

 

A Hawaii House bill would ban the distribution of sample tobacco products and coupons
redeemable for tobacco products on any public street, sidewalk, or park, or within 1000 feet
of any school attended by minors. The bill had already received a unanimous vote in the
House Health Committee and this week it received unanimous approval in House Finance.
The Senate companion bill awaits action in the Judiciary Committee.

oO
HR
oO
wo
ao
wl
a
NI
an