-4-

Gray Market

At the request of the Nevada Wholesale Association, a bill has been introduced in the Senate
to address the gray market issue in the state. Our Tax Department has reviewed the bill and
deemed it too poorly written to do the job. We are working to get the language contained in
the Georgia gray market bill substituted for the current bill text.

Ingredients

The most comprehensive ingredients disclosure bill the industry has encountered was
defeated in the Minnesota House Health Committee. A companion bill in the Senate has not
been scheduled for a hearing.

The Maine Joint Committee on Health and Human Services has scheduled a hearing on
legislation to require tobacco manufacturers to disclose the ingredients in their products.

 

A bill was introduced in the New York Senate that would require disclosure of added
ingredients in tobacco products as well as nicotine yield ratings. The bill was referred to the
Senate Committee on Health.

Divestment
An Illinois House bill has been introduced which eliminates any future investments in tobacco

company securities after 12/31/99. While the measure does not require the liquidation of
existing investments, it does recommend a close review during the next year.

 

Youth

 

Legislation in Minnesota has been introduced and referred to the House Crime Prevention
Committee to raise the age of purchase of tobacco products from 18 to 21.

In New_York, a bill was introduced that will increase the legal age-of-purchase for tobacco
products from 18 to 21 and will subject retailers’ alcohol and lottery licenses to disciplinary
actions for illegal tobacco sales to minors. Another bill will increase fines for illegal sales to
minors and subject alcohol and lottery licenses to disciplinary actions for repeat offenders.

Fire Safe Cigarettes

The New_York Assembly Committee on Governmental Operations passed by a one-vote
margin a bill that would require all cigarettes sold in the state to meet fire safety standards.
The legislation will now go to the Assembly Committee on Codes.

 

8285 Eset