PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: R. Prasad ~~" "““Date: April 9, 1990

From: Cc. R. Howe and R. Southwick

Subject: Recovery of Tobacco Neutrals from Water Column Effluent

The removal of hydrophobic organic compounds from aqueous effluents is
a well-known technology. For example, Bitteur and Rosset (J. Food Science
53, 141 (1988) describe the use of octadecyl-bonded silica (C-18) and
styrene-divinylbenzene to recover blackcurrant aroma compounds from food
plant waste water. These packings selectively retain organic compounds
while inorganic salts and ionic organic compounds pass through unretained.
We reasoned that the acidic water column effluent could be pumped through C-
18 packing and the organic "flavor" components could be retained while the
protonated bases, e.g., nicotine, would pass through.

We have carried out an experiment to test this hypothesis (Notebook
8889-69). Specifically, to 1000g of ART MPC solution was added at room
temperature 20g of Baker reversed phase packing (octadecylsilane bonded to
silica gel, 40 micron particle diameter). This suspension was stirred
vigorously for one hour and then filtered through a coarse fritted glass
funnel. The solids (yellowish in color) were washed with two 500ml portions
of water. Nicotine analyses for the filtrate and washings were as follows:

Filtrate 27.719

lst Wash SO 675

2nd Wash .038
Total 28 .432¢

The nicotine content of the initial solution was 29.4g; thus nearly 97%
of the nicotine passed through the packing.

After the second washing with water, the packing was air-dried for
about 2 hours. The packing showed a weight gain of 0.25 grams. The dried

packing was slurried with about 30ml 95% ethanol and filtered by suction. _

The packing was rinsed with two 10-ml portions of ethanol, at which point
the packing was colorless. After drying the packing weighed 19.5g, probably
due to mechanical loss. The yellow ethanol solution has a rich tobacco
aroma and will be evaluated by the odor profile panel; it is available for
subjective evaluation in cigarettes as well.

Since this result is so promising, we plan to perform additional
experiments to evaluate the capacity of the C-18 packing. An alternate
packing material is a styrene-divinylbenzene co-polymer.

We will order some of this material for studies to compare with the C-
18 data. The styrene-divinylbenzene packing can be used over a pH range of
1-14 whereas the C-18 is limited to pH 3-6 by its chemical reactivity.

SSTECSL2A6Q¢