wWednesds © August 18, 1976

Cell ‘Clone,’ Hot Cholesterol Buildup,

By Joun HENAHAN

Speral Fosdune C orrespordent
ANantim, CALtE.—The theory tbat
otheresclerouis is the resuls of 8 tumor:
pe plolderaton of © single cell
“clone” rather theo 8 simple buildup
of cholesiero) 10 Ene artencs received
nee support et 8 symposium of the
fOin onousl mecting of tbe Federation
of american Societses for Experimental
Bictory held bere.

As first proposed about three years
ago by Dr. Eatl P; Benditt, of the Uni-
versity of Washington. Seatue, the ides
suggests that cell proiferation is first
iniieted by some. chemical. biological
of physical sumulys and thai the grow-
ing mass is then built up into an etber-
osclerotic plaque as it is invaded by
fibnnogen, Gpoproteins and otber
bicod components. The theory was
bated on his observations thal sthero-
sclerotic plaques from the sorties of
three women all contained only a sin-
gle form of two possible forms of tbe
enryme glucose-6-phosphete debydro-
genase, indicating that the atlero-
sclerotic tissue must have come from
only one cell population. Dr. Benditt,
cheirman of the FASEB symposium,
seid

Confirmed st Haphine

His work has since been confirmed
by Di. Rober H. Heptenstatl. of the
Johns Hopkins University Schoo) of
Medicine, who told © press conference
that Dr. Benditt's finding is “one of
the most | observations thei

(hes 2000 made fin the entire Geld of
priecriosclerosis aver the test 20 vears
in fect, it took something like this to
get me back into the field.”

Te is still not clear what factors act
upon a cell of family of cells to inition
the atherosclerotic process, said Dr.
Brodin, but be suspects thot chemical
mitageos from the environment, or
perhaps viruses such as those that
cause warts could be implicated. Pre-
sumebly these initistors ere carticd to
smooth muscle cells in the arterial
walls by blood components, stch as
lisoproteins, he said.

For example, be reported laboratory
evidence thet 3-rmethyl cholanthrene,
B precarcinogenic mutagen found in
cigarette supoke and lipoproteins from
human serum ase carned in the same
portion of the serum as is cholesterol.

“it bas now been observed in sev-
eral laboratories that low density Lipo-
proteins, among the serum proteins,
are preferentially taken up by tbe
smooth muscle cells derived trom bu-
men and primate eniery walls wheo
culivated in vitro,” Dr. Benditt said.

Evidence Forthoom'nar

"In addition, evidence is beginning
to appear that there is an enzyme Sys-
tem~aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase—
that converts substances such as 3-
methyl cholanthrene from 8 pre-muta-
pen io 8 mutagen Thus we begin to
see thot several of the ingredients t¢-
wired for initienon of monoclonal
ftowih m artery wall cclis are present
yo the huaiaw system 2. Wee cab ben
sketch the ovthnes of how one risk
factor, gateiic smoking may be
operanng to produce of to enhance the
occurrence of atherosclerotic tesions ®

Whotercr apbates atbcrosciesotic

DSBOICAL TAUNE |

  

cell proliferation first passes into the
blood stream via the, gastoiotestini
uect, lungs or skw, Dr. Beodst
proposed “The inner lining of the ves-
sels.” he added. “thus become exposed
te injurious environmental agents, and
being a specialized, but otherwise o!-
Goary tssue, it responds by producing
mflammetory responses to infections,
snd by tumor formation with the ep-
propriate stimuli.” .

Another intvator for atherosclerosis
could be cholesterol-c-oxide, 5 knows
tumot-inducer which bas also been
found in substantial concentrbtions in
the serums of people prone to etherd=
sclerosis, including those with Type UI
hypercholesteremia and hyperteasion,
he 821d Jo addition, animal studies in
Dr. Bendin's lsboratories indicate that
hypertension, even of brief curation,
“causes increased multiphestion of the
eadothelia! Lining cells of esteries.”

The possibility thet viruses—espo-
dslly in combination with estrogenic
bormones—may elso act at initiators
come from Di. Bendit’s findings that
thickens which develop a
spontaneously developed a much more
advanced case of the disease if they
weee simullancousty injected with ¢s-
wogens and affbcted by a virus.

“This obstrvation seems specially
important when we fecal) thet in fa)
recently completed coronary drag pri}-
ect, the sdministratinn of estrogens was
associnted not with a decrease, but with
an increased death rote from myocis-
dial infaretion . . . The effects of estro-
gens in eliciting btent virnges
inducing lymphomas in mice have now
deen observed. Could this be the
mechanism involved in the estrogen
portion of the coronary drug project?”
Dr. Bendit: asked.

   
   

This MEDICAL TRIBUNE feature is
intended to help the physician find
dungs his patienss moy need. it is based
on data from the Self-Help Manuel for
Anbrius Patients, prepared by Judith
Lamejeld Klinger, O.T.R., MA., for
the Allied Health Professions Section
of the Arthritis Foundation, 745 River-
side Drive. New York, N.Y. 20027,

In the Bathroom

The Manual offers several sugges
Bons that rosy help persons with erthri-
us of the lower extremities to manage
toilet activities independently. For ex-
ample. a raised toilet seat, in 8 per-
manent or ponable model. greatly
reduces stress op hip and keee jomts.
Arwnrests can be attached to seat bolts.
A safery bar fixed to the wall would
hetp an transfering from wheelchair to
toilet In remodeling & bathroom. hang-
ing a wall toder higher than usual. of
installing a special bB-:0ch sigh box),
are posuble solutions 1

When self-cleaning is difficull, the
buggesbon 1 to fashion 9 toilet paper
holder ftom 9 metal katung needle by
Dep ered he UTE ng le,
hke a paperchp The clip is then sei in
alightwesght nonship handle Also. 16-
inch tongs for gnpping toilet paper can
be purchared for about $6

A «ample homemode device, fash-

 

Seen in Atherosclerosis

 

 

In oddition, be anid. the fact that
several young worn with lupus ery-
themsiosus (presumably vira) in on-
gn) died of thrombosis due to athero-
sclesosr suggests that “we may have
our first virus cause of leronis.”

Dr. Heptinswall presented findings
which strengthen Dr. Beaditt’s theory
sat atherosclerosis is the fmimorous

{albeit benign) end product of the pro- ©

liferauon of a single cel) clone. Using
the enzyme market

phote dehydrogenase, be confirmed
that the “yellow fawy streak” in ar-
tenes, which is consdered by many to

PODDOREDDDD EDF DOO : 3)

   
 

 

be the forerunner of 9 mature atbero-
selerotic plaque, shares the tame en-
zyme pattern The streaks. found sn the
prteries of human juvemles, consis! of
groups of far-filled cells. he explained
concluding that brs dais are “consistent
with the notion that some streaks act
as the forerunner of the fibrous

pleque.”

 

Nursing Home Loans
Hannussusc, Pa —Pennsylvame state's
Nursing Home Loan Agency hes
amended its regulations to allow wnsu-
tutions providing nursing cate to apply
for long-term, low-cost loans Pennsyt-
vania 35 the first state to do so

 

 

Renography Urged in Dx of High BP
Secondary to Renovascular Disease

ddodire) Trideme Report

Darias—Renography is the best too}
presently available for screening p2-
tients for hypertension secondary to
renovascular dusease, Bcconding to Dz.
M. D. Blsvfox, of Albert Einstein
College of Medicine

“There are about 20 mikbon pet-
sons with hypertension and about 5%
of these are potentially curable,” he
said “Yet there is not one single symp-
tom that will tel) a physician whether
the patient's byperteasion is caused
by renovascular disease.”

“We cred an accurate, safe and ww-
expensive screening test.” Dr. Blaufox
wid the Society of Nuckar Medicwe

ineeting here.
‘While admitting there is a0 proce-
Gore vgpable of renovascular

hypertension with 100% accuracy. Dr.
Bisulox sad the repogram was the
mos! sccurte, safest and least expen-
sive procedure available.

Dr. Bleufox said comparative stud-

 

ioned from a funnel end hose, can be
used when urinating from a wheelcheir:
it commercial equivalent sells for
about$3 to $5.

These aod olber persona) hygiene
items can be purchased from bospital
supply os self-help equipment firms
Jsted mm Uke Manual, available from
the Arthritis Foundation for $1.25.

Glider-commode chair can be std
either with » pan ot rolled over a stand- and lower extremities, provide balance

eid toldct. Costs about $98,

ies havé shown that repograms can
diagnose renovascular hypertension
with atbout 85% accuracy adding.
however, that they also have a fale
positive vate of about 10%. By con-
Uast, urograms show about a 7B% ac-
curate detection with 11% false posi-
tuves.

When both tests are done, reno-
vascularly induced hypertension can
be detected accurately GIS of the
ume, be seid. By the same tohen, how-
ever, the folse positive rate iacreases
to 18%.

While the two procedures arc com:
parable im accuracy, Dr Blauiox
sisted, abou! 6% of the patitnis ¢r-
penence reactions to the contrast
medium used in he vrograms while
there were “virtually DO rescuons to
the renograms ~

Reoograpby should only be used for
screening renovascular hypertension mn
highly selected cases, thr inveshgator
cautioned

 

   
  

Raised toBet seat redures strens on hip
aad knee joints by adding 3 to § inches
to beight. Cushioned model above seils
for about $32; ancushloned about $24.

Armrests divide stress between wpper

while Witting. Coss ranges $15-§25.