To determine the effect of CSC on the level of 8-oxo-dG as a result of oxidative

stress/damage produced by the production of oxygen free radicals, rat lung cells (V-79) -

were cultured and exposed. The dose and time dependent experiments have been
completed, and the cells are now frozen. DNA isolation and analysis will begin shortly.

Project Name (#): Technical Reviews of Emerging Issues (B-625)
Project Leader: J.D. Heck

Project Initiation Date: 1996

Project Hours: 132

Project Description: New issues relating to the Company's products and interests arise
continuously. These emerging social, regulatory, and technical issues frequently involve
scientific data and its interpretation and are therefore properly referred to the Research
Department for review. This project will draw upon the diverse technical expertise within the
Research Department to provide 1) Interpretation of new scientific studies for interested persons
within the Company; 2) Technical critique of new or significant scientific studies in areas of
Company interest; and 3) Preparation of technical sammaries and statements for other
departments for possible inclusion in formal statements or submissions to external agencies or
other groups. The majority of effort will comprise written analysis. However, some ad hoc
laboratory activity may be pursued to address technical elements of emerging issues.

Project Accomplishments:
IARC Database

Data base error correction and supplementation for lung p53 base substitution mutation
continues. Approximately 92 literature reports have been obtained, compiled and
corrected. Approximately 39 new lung entries have been made from new p53 papers
found during November. Hand re-compilation must take place with each new entry.
Database Software supported by MIS or EXEL macros would be extremely beneficial to
keep-up with this effort.

Miscellaneous

J.D. Heck reviewed background information on aflatoxins in tobacco in response to a
second external solicitation in regard to Dr. K. Lane's patent pending process for
aflatoxin detection/removal. Dr. Lane's opinion paper on the subject appeared on the
Medscape www site. The paper contained several fundamental misstatements and
misunderstandings; no convincing evidence that aflatoxins on tobacco are biologically

significant has appeared since JDH's initial review of the subject [memorandum #5701]. .

Work was initiated on a manuscript to be submitted for publication based on JDH's
memorandum #6384 on the subject of menthol and smoking topography.

3 of 6

yL9860%8

nique Av hepato A