Project Name (#): Industrial Hygiene (H-650)

Project Leader: E. C Smith
Project Initiation Date: 1999
Project Hours: 79.5

Project Description: The objective of the project is to address compliance with applicable
regulatory standards involving worker health. Specific goals include: 1) performing industrial
hygiene surveys to assess employee exposure to various chemical and physical agents within the
processing, manufacturing, and laboratory facilities 2) providing consultative and industrial
hygiene services to various departments upon request 3) reviewing appropriate literature dealing
with the practice of industrial hygiene as it pertains to performing exposure surveys and ,
requested services 4) performing activities related to radiation safety.

Project Accomplishments:

Radiation safety

An inspection of the Research Center’s radiation safety program was conducted by staff
from the NC Department of Environment and Natural Resources.

Work continued on constructing a current inventory of radio-labelled materials at the
Research Center. Memos were distributed asking section managers to provide
information about the amount of radioactivity housed within their sections.

Regulatory Compliance

Discussions were held with the other members of the Chemical Hygiene Committee
(CHC) about the results of a mock OSHA inspection conducted by an outside consulting

firm. A search was made for information on the interpretation of “ready availability” for
MSDS’s.

Discussions were held with the other members of the Chemical Hygiene Committee
(CHC) about the need to schedule a meeting to discuss topics for which an
implementation mechanism is needed.

The text of the CHP was reviewed along with D Ergle and minor changes were made.

Respiratory protection standard

The OSHA standard was reviewed for information concerning “voluntary” use of
respirators.

Discussions were held with section managers identifying personnel within their section
who uses respirators.

40f6

GLS86028

ARaicaheMGiO eRe,