1 ERROR TERS

Texas Ingredients Disclosure

The deadline for submission of cigarette formulation information to Texas was extended
until February 1, 2000. Work continues with MIS to complete information encryption
procedures and transfer of files to the server.

HHS Meeting

A meeting of industry representatives was conducted in Atlanta on November 17, 1999
with Dr. M. Eriksen of the HHS Office of Smoking and Health to discuss his request for
information regarding the industry ingredients list. Prior to the meeting with HHS, the
industry ingredients committees met to discuss questions anticipated to arise during the
HAS meeting. C. Coggins attended the meeting with HHS, with C. Gaworski and J. D.
Heck in attendance at the industry committee meeting. Eriksen requested a description of
each company’s approach to ingredient testing and review. This has been drafted and
submitted to Coggins for review.

Project Name (#): Bioassay Development (B-601)
Project Leader: C.L. Gaworski

Project Initiation Date: 1995

Project Hours: 167

Project Description: This project specifically accounts for the laboratory time involved in the
development of various bioassay capabilities within the scope of R&D objectives. Areas of
interest will include bacterial mutagenesis, mammalian cell biology, PCR, and associated
biochemical analysis. As the techniques and capabilities are refined, they will be applied to
specific areas of interest including cigarette modification or ETS projects. This project will
principally involve the activities of the Life Sciences Group, but may also include occasional
support from other groups.

Project Accomplishments:
DNA adduct studies

Covance has finished development of a 8-OHdG analysis by p-32 postlabeling. Old
pellets of TA7005 prepared April 1999 were examined for 8-OHdG content. The DNA
preps are unsuitable for analysis. New pellets were prepared in October and analysed
during November. Preliminary indication from Dr. Nath is that no 8-OH-dG is found in
TA7005 treated with ESP at 400 j1g/ml for 2 hours. Dr. Nath has arranged a visit to
Lorillard in December to discuss his progress with p-32 postlabeling procedures.

Methods development

Fluorescent Alelle Specific PCR (FAS-PCR) for detection of TA7005 revertants is
proceeding. PCR conditions are near optimization and PCR of TA7005 revertants has
been done successfully. Results are promising.

21986028

2 of 6