FF: Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last. first, midgle):

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information tor the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

POSITION TITLE
Assistant Professor of Medicine

 

    
   
 

NAME
Robert |. Garver, Jr.

 
 
  

 
 
 

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

YEAR
CONFERRED

  

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION

 

FIELD OF STUDY

    

Boston University; Boston, MA 1977

  

Biology

     

Johns Hopkins University; Baltimore, MD 1981

    

Medicine

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous amployment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or axecution of tha project.
Key personnel typically will include all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. Include Present membership on
any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete reterences to all publications during the
past three years and to representative earlier Publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Appointments
1981-82 Intern in Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital
1982-84 Resident in Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital
1984-87 Senior Staff Fellow, Pulmonary Branch
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
1987 Clinical Chief, Pulmonary Branch
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
1988- Assistant Professor of Medicine
Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine
University of Alabama School of Medicine
Honors

Phi Beta Kappa 1976

Shields Warren Award, Boston University, 1977

Henry Strong Denison Award, Johns Hopkins University, 1979-80.

American Cancer Society Clinical Oncology Career Development Award, 1990
Edward Livingston Trudeau Scholar Award, 1991

Publications

1. Monette FC, Eichacker PQ, Garver RI, Gilio MJ. Characterization of the anti-
serum cell activity of anti-mouse brain serum. Exp Hemat 6: 299-307, 1978.

2. Monette FC, Eichacker PQ, Byrt W, Garver RI, Gilio MJ, DeMello JB. An
immunologic approach to cell cycle analysis of the stem cell. In: Experimental
Hematology Today. Baum SJ, Ledney GD, eds. pp. 11-19, Springer-Verlag,
1977.

3. Nukiwa T, Brantly M, Garver RI, Paul L, Courtney M, LeCocq JP, Crystal RG.

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91) (Form Page 6} Page FF

 

Number pages consecutively at the bottom throughout the application. Do nor use suffixes such as 3a, 3b.