Philip Morris USA CONFIDENTIAL

PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Distribution Date: August 2, 1993

From: _ T. Holland 49h ww .
Subject: Cast Leaf - Monthly Development Summary - July 1993

NBL Product Development

Marlboro configuration cigarettes incorporating NBL (with 15 parts ammonia) produced during
the April trial at the current BL Plant line speed (350 fpm) and at increased line speed

(390 fpm) were evaluated by the Flavor Technology panel and found to have subjective parity
with the Marlboro control. When submitted to the Richmond panel, differences were detected,
however, the opinion of the panelists were that NBL is close subjectively and could achieve
parity with fine tune adjustments to the dryer profile.

A BL plant factory trial was conducted in May to produce NBL at 390 fpm with a reduced
ammonia formulation from 15 parts to 10 parts. Air sampling was conducted on Line 1 to
confirm the reduction of ammonia in the dryer emissions. Preliminary results indicated a 40%
reduction in ammonia emissions (normalized to production throughput) was achieved which is
in line with expected reductions based upon theoretical calculations.

Cigarettes incorporating NBL (with 10 parts ammonia) produced in the May trial have been
produced and are scheduled for evaluation by the Flavor Technology panel the week of
August 2, 1993.

NBL Commercialization

A cost estimate to retrofit the BL Plant with the minimum essential equipment to produce NBL
at an increase line rate of 390 fpm has been prepared. The estimated cost is $3.2 million

total capital and expense which would generate a 42.0 % ROI based upon reduced overtime at
the BL Plant to produce forecasted production of 47 million pounds. An implementation
schedule will be established after review with Environmental Engineering to assess the
implications of implementing NBL with regards to timing and environmental control
requirements for the environmental permit at the BL plant site.

With conversion of the BL Plant to NBL, the facility would have the capability to produce
Cast Leaf with the addition of a guar gum feeder.

GG6E6S60506