To:
From:

Subject:

PHILIP MORRIS
U.S.A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPOKDENCE

RICHMOND, VUERGINIA

Dr. D. A. Lowitz bate: March 26, 1974
N. B. Rainer

QUARTERLY REPORT

Cigarettes were machine-made from Marlboro filler
containing 5, 10-and 20% of a shredded, carbonized filler.
Reductions in TPM and CO delivery have been found, confirming
data obtained on eight different tests of hand-made cigarettes
and an earlier test on machine-made cigarettes. The cigarettes
are mild-tasting and do not appear to produce fiery particles.

Hand-made cigarettes were fabricated having a carbon
core derived from a laterally crimped cellulosic non-woven
sheet. No fiery particles were produced during smoking,
and the ash has the same appearance as a control cigarette
having no carbon core. This potentially low cost cigarette
is expected to provide reduced TPM and gas phase delivery
without sacrifice in taste. It could overcome the problem
of brittleness encountered with the shredded carbon filler.
The cigarettes may also serve as. a research model for investi-
gation of combustion phenomena in the cigarette.

Studies continue in our efforts. to correlate the chemistry
of smoking substrates. such as burley stems and cellulose,
with the nature of the resulting smoke. Using cellulose
as a model, it has been discovered that carboxyl groups
produced by chemical oxidation of primary hydroxyl groups
undergo rapid decarboxylation at low pyrolysis temperature
(240°C). It is unlikely that the resultant product can
form levoglucosan, the primary initial degradation product
of cellulose. This may give some insight into an explanation
as to why oxidized cellulose produces milder smoker than
untreated cellulose. Other carboxyl groups, such as those
produced by air oxidation, are more resistant to decarboxyla-
tion. Aside from the informative value of this knowledge,
it presents a novel route toward the utilization of most
of the Briskin-type oxidized celluloses.

Work continued on providing samples of ozone treated
burley stem material to J. Swain for subjective smoking
evaluation. Results to date indicate reduced harshness
of smoke. Further studies are underway to ascertain the
effects of ammonium carboxylate groups in themselves and
in combination with reduction of carbohydrate molecular
weight. It has been found that the carboxyl content of

69ICCTSOOOT