dividuals composed of normal subjects as
well as of patients with peripheral arterial
disease. Pulsations in the arteries declined
from an average of 7 units (3 to 12) before
injection to 3 units (1 to 7.5) ten minutes
after administration of the drug. As in 2
patients marked lowering of the height of
pulsations was not accompanied by any sig-
nificant increase in blood flow or skin tem-
perature, this finding will most likely have
to be traced to decreased cardiac output.
Effect of SC 1950 on Digital Blood Flow
and Skin Temperatures. Administration of
SC 1950 in normal individuals led to a marked
increase in the blood flow to the toe. In a
specific case (Fig. 1) the relative toe flow
rose from 3.0 cu mm/5 cc per sec. to 25.0
cu mm, as compared with a value of 20.0 cu
mm, obtained after release of 5 minutes ar-
terial occlusion above the knee. The skin
temperature rose 7°C in each toe. In the
same subject body heating, using 2 woolen
blankets as well as 2 electric pads for a
period of 40 minutes, resulted in an increase
in digital flow amounting to 30.0 cu mm/5
ce per sec. In patients with mild peripheral
arterial disease, an increase in blood flow to
the extremities as well as a rise in the skin
temperature was observed upon intravenous
instillation of the drug, but the readings al-
ways remained decidedly below normal levels.
For instance, in a case of early thromboangi-
itis obliterans of the left leg (Fig. 2) flow
to the left toe increased following injection
from 2.0 cu mm/5 cc per sec. to 4.5 cu mm.
Five minutes after release of arterial occlu-
sion the toe flow reached 5.0 cu mm/5 cc
per sec. Under the influence of SC 1950
the skin temperature of the left second toe
rose from 26,0° to 32.8°C, a value well
below normal, but very similar to the read-
ing of 33.2°C obtained after 40 minutes of
body heating. In the presence of advanced
peripheral vascular disease neither the digital
blood flow nor skin temperature was signifi-
cantly influenced by administration of SC
1950. A patient with arteriosclerosis obliter-
ans and polycythemia, for instance, (Fig. 3)
showed a rise in peripheral flow from 12.0
cu mm to 16.0 cu mm/5 cc per sec., while fol-
lowing release of 5 minutes arterial occlusion

 

a

it amounted to 9.0 cu mm. Skin temperature
of the toes increased only slightly in the right
second toe from 34.0° to 34.8°C.

Vasomotor Reactions and Side Effects. SC
1950 was furthermore studied as to its possible
influence upon the variations in the amplitude
of pulse waves as well as in the volume of the
digit normally produced through respiration.
The 5 normal subjects were examined at 2
minute intervals before and 15 minutes after
injection of the drug. Before injection all
5 subjects presented upon sharp thoracic in-
spiration the normal decrease in the ampli-
tude of pulse waves us well as in digital
volume. Following injection af SC 1950 a
definitely changed pattern could be observed.
Either no reaction whatever appeared upon
inspiration, or an increase in the volume of
the digit occurred as a paradoxical response.
Both effects were taken to indicate that satis-
factory blocking of the sympathetic nervous
system had taken place.

Side reactions were relatively common and
uccurred in one-foutth of the 26 subjects.
These responses included nasal obstruction,
sighing inspiration, weakness, nausea, dizzi-
ness, sleepiness, restlessness, angina, dry
mouth, swelling of the throat, heavy eyelids,
visual disturbance, and thick speech. When
SC 1950 was administered rectally as a re-
tention enema in a dose of 25 mg per kg of
body weight, the same changes in blood pres-
sure as following intravenous injection were
observed, but there occurred also the identical
side reactions.

Summary and conclusions, SC 1950 has.
a profound effect on the peripheral circulation.
A fall of blood pressure is observed in normal
individuals as well as in patients with periph-
eral vascular disease, but in the latter group
this response is subject to considerable varia-
tions. The pulse rate is frequently elevated,
and considerable variations occur following
intravenous injection of SC 1950. The pulse
volume of the digits shows a marked increase
in normal individuals, is somewhat less in
patients with moderate peripheral arterial
disease, and varies only insignificantly in pa-
tients with advanced organic peripheral arter-
ial disease. In normal individuals the skin

temperature of the digits rises sharply, often