Copyright, 1950, by the Socicty for Experimental Biology and Medicine.
Reprinted from PROGEEDIKGS oF TUE ROCTETY For Experi weNtat, Biology aANp MrDICcINE,
1950, v7s, 417-423

Effects of SC 1950 (2,6 Dimethyl Diethyl Piperidinium Bromide) on
Peripheral Circulation.* (17701)

Travis WINSOR.

From the Department of Medicine, University of Southern California M edical School, and the
Nash Cardiovascular Foundation, Hospital of the Good Samaritan, Los Angeles, California,

Stimulation of the peripheral circulation
is of decided benefit in the treatment ‘of a
number of clinical conditions, especially Ray-
naud’s disease, reflex sympathetic dystrophy,
and vasospasm accompanying arteriosclerosis
obliterans as well as thromboangiitis obliter-
ans. Such an increase in the blood flow to
the extremities can be accomplished through
medication with vasodilating drugs, however
always at the risk of certain undesirable side
reactions, as for instance, sleepiness, or dizzi-
ness. Tt was therefore decided to determine
whether or not the new quaternary amine 2,6
dimethyl diethyl piperidinium bromide (SC
1950),* synthesized by I. C. Winter and his
associates, increases the blood flow to the
extremities and thus exerts a significant in-
fluence upon peripheral circulation. ‘his
drug, described as a ganglionic blocking agent,
has proved in animal experiments to be
several limes as potent as tetraethylammon-
ium bromide(1) and results in man and dog
in lowering of blood pressure, reduction of
tonus, and concomitant increase in the skin
temperature of the toe(2).

Methods and materials. he effectiveness
of SC 1950 was siudied in 5 normal indi-
viduals and 21 patients with peripheral ar-
terial disease. OI the normal individuals, 3

 

* These studies were supported in part by grants
from the A, M. Roberts Memorial Fund of the Los
Augeles Heart Association, and the Los Angeles
County Tubereulosis and Health Association.

Gratitude is expressed to Dr. B. 0, Raulston for
the encouragement and couperation extended during
the eourse of this research.

‘The valuable technieal assistanee of Grayce 8.
Fleming is sincerely acknowledged.

+Drug gratuitously provided by the Researeh
Laboratories of G. D. Searle and Co.

1. Winter, T. ©., personal communication.

2. Tiongino, F, H., Chittum, J. R., and Grimson,
K. &., Proc. Sec. Exp. Bion. any Muzp., 1949, v70,
467.

were males, 2 females, the average age in
this group amounting to 28 years (21 to 42).
Of the 21 patients with arterial discase, 14
were males, 7 females, the average age in this
group amounting to 33 years (24 to 55).
In 10 cases the diagnosis was arteriosclerosis
obliterans, in 5 essential benign hypertension,
in 4 thromboangiitis obliterans, while hyper-
tension secondary to pyelonephritis, and to
periarteritis nodosa was noted in one case
each, The experiments were conducted under
standard reproducible conditions. All subjects
were dressed in hospital gowns and examined
after 45 minutes of rest. Observations were
made in an air conditioned room with a
temperature of 25°C + 1.5°, the air velocity
amounting ordinarily to less than 10 feet
per minute.

Changes in the volume of the extremities
were determined by means of a digital pneu-
moplethysmograph(3) and a digital cup was
fastened to the tip of the right or left second
toe or finger. Plethysmograms were standard-
ized so that volume changes were recorded
in cu mm/5 cc per sec. Blood flow to the
extremities was ascertained through venous
ocelusion(4) and a collecting cuff placed at
ankle or wrist and in selected cases at finger
or toe. In order to establish the skin tem-
perature, thermocouple junctions were fixed
to the skin of the extremitics with cellulose
tape, and readings from a 12-point electronic
potentiometer were recorded every [5 seconds.
These observations were exact within =
0.25°C, and the accuracy of the instrument
employed was frequently tested with a Na-
tional Burcau of Standards mercury ther-
mometer, exact to within 0.1°C. Blood pres-
sure was measured by the standard ausculta-
tory or the plethysmographic method, or in

 

~ 3. Burch, G. E., dm. Heart J., 1947, v38, 48.
4, Goetz, R. H., Am, Heart J., 1946, v31, 146;
correction 1946, vd2, 188. ,