RIR - XAD-4 sampling cube followed by a BSA-saturated
Cambridge filter pad, and passive sampling devices
containing XAD-4 resin.

The addition of the BSA~saturated Cambridge pad to the ncrmal
WIR sappling design isa an attempt to verify that the XAD-4
porbent bed removes all nicotine in the vapor phase but
virtually no particulate-phase nicotine. These saturated
filters will be analyzed by the BYU researchers.

Sampling will occur during the week of 14-18 Decenber and the
RIR samples will be returned for analysis the following week.

coordination between the scientists of RJR and Philip Morris
was excellent. PM scientists stated on several occasions that
they were very much impressed by the expertise of Reynolds’
scientists. Morale among the PM R&D people appears to be
rather low.

surveys Of ETS In_JAL Aircraft And Hong Kong Restaurants ~

The portable air sampling systems performed well during the
surveys with the exception of the carbon monoxide monitoring
systems on the four flights. The performance of the co
analytical cells was adversely affected by the low barometric
pressures axperienced in the aircraft. These pressures were
substantially lower than those previously observed during
domestic flights: consequently, the problem was unforeseen.
Efforts are underway at RJR and PM to determine whether
unbiased data may yet be retrieved and to modify the Co
monitoring system in order to address the effect of barometric
pressure.

Behavior of smokers in the aircraft is expected to influence
ronults in a manner different from that observed during U.S.
flights. Smoking occurred in no-smoking sections on flights
connecting Now York and Tokyo. Moreover, butt counts revealed
that about twice the number of cigarettes were smoked on the
four hour flight between Tokyo and Hong Kong than on the New
York-Tokyo flight.

Similarly, smoking behavior is expected to have a profound
effect on results from Hong Kong restaurants. Very little
smoking was observed in native restaurants serving tho Chinese
populations indeod, for neveral restaurants smoking was not
observed during the ontire one-hour sampling period. On the
other hand, smoking behavior in “Wostorn” restaurants appoared
similar to that obrorved for surveys conducted in New York,
pallas, and Winston-Salem. The above observations suggest
atrongly that results of surveys conducted in North America
may translate poorly to foreign. locations. Additionally, they
may call in question the appropriateness of gonoralizing from
varjous international vpide:iological studion rolating ETS
exposure to health effects.

 

6122 TZLOS