Urine mutagenicity data from the fourth week of the RJRT human
study has been received, decoded and analyzed. Yyhe results
indicate that when smokers were switched from a conventional
product to the test product their urinary mutagenicity
markedly declined, beconing similar to non-smokers.
Conversely, when suckers were switched from the test product
to a conventional product the rutagenicity of their urine
jncreased. These results clearly support the hypothesis of
this study "smokers who use the test cigarette excrete urine
which is less mutagenic than emokers who use the reference

cigarette."

A study on the effect of fried food on the mutagenicity of
human urine has been designed. This study, scheduled for the
first week of February 1988, will be conducted in
collaboration with the Hershey Medical Center of Penn State
University.

Final reports evaluating mainstream particulate matter from
NOW, 1R4F, Carlton and a test cigarette in the in vitro
unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay have been received.
Particulate matter from the four cigarettes was tested at
identical concentrations on a weight (ug/ml) basis. The
results indicate that NOW, 1R4F and Carlton induced UDS to a
similar degree, whereas the test cigarette was without
genotoxic activity as measured in this assay.

A final report evaluating the potential of a flavor extracted

off an alumina substrate to induce unscheduled DNA synthesis
hap been received. The rasults indicate that this material
was cytotoxic, but not genotoxic under the conditions of this
assay.

A final report evaluating the potential of mainstroam
particulate matter from a prototype cigarette to induce
unscheduled DNA synthesis has been recoived. Tho results
indicate that this material was neither cytotoxic nor
genotoxic under the conditions of this assay.

"Smoke-PBS" of reference cigarette IR4F and s special project
sample was tested in the Amos assay. 20 cigarottes of each
wore smoked por 60 ml of phosphate-buf fered saline (PBS) and
tosted "fresh" using strains TA98 and TA100 with and without
69 activation. The doses of "smoke-PKS" used wore 0, 50, 100,
180, and 200 ul/pl. Only RAF tested against TA98 with &9
activation system, yioldod a positive rosult.

The Amen toot lab began Invontigating the activation of C&C
(’R4F) by 89 proparations of rat, mice, and hamstor livora.
traditionally, rat liver 8? roproacnted & mammalian motabolic
syetem and other sources of 8&9 wore genorally neglected. As
noch as PSD utilizes the Ames test in product terting and
development, it is important te cumpare the aotivation of C&C
by varicus 69/8.

*tze ZrZee¢