oun ar eee wer Kr e
oe i. sey ai roe RECA S eY eee
EL DLN) On EP onl OSE

coe gn aR AT ni vg wot taeieniipeenentaninenaptoeegr aan ite ArT: e ‘
Dicawba residue data on final blend cut filler and finished
roduct for Project HR are being received. To date, cut
filler residues ranged from below the detection limit to 0.1
ppm. Dicamba samples of finished product are Jess than 0.)
ppm Dicamba. The USDA tolerance for Dicamba is 0.5 ppm-

Manufacturing - Three materia)s were reviewed and approved for

———

use by Manufacturing:

- Approved the use of CPN-23 hot melt adhesive for gluing
-mmineg gupons” to: theeutside: of cigarette packs.« This: hot- melt
is composed of hydrocarbon waxes and resins of low toxicity

and an antioxidant. The formula is proprietary.

see

Approved the use of WINSTON Domestic Red 10 Ink
(R-25027-C1) supplied by the American Inks and Coatings
Corp. It will be used on the outside of packs and cartons.
Based on the lack of product contact and the low toxicity
of the components, it is not expected to be of
toxicological concern.

seperti mee meee ere
a

Approved the use of Ultra-Seal 504 to seal micro-pores in
glue pots at RJRT. this product is a methacrylate based
polymer that fills the pores in metal to facilitate
cleaning. Methacrylates are polymers of low toxicity and
should not result in adverse health effects.

ee temenerarey

Two potential product contaminations were evaluated.

- A small piece of a styrene-butadione-vinylacotate
terpolymer from a dust mask band was found in the tobacco.
tho pyrolysis products of this material are CO, C02, acetic
acid, toluene, benzene, ethylene, acetylene and butadicna.
Hone of these compounds are acutely toxic at low levels.
Butadione and banzene are suspected human carcinogens.

A roll of duct .tape found in the tobacco was analyzed. It
consisted primarily of calcium carbonate, Band,
polyisoprone, polyethylene terephthalate aluminum dust and
polyethylene. Pyrolysis products would include C02, CO,
CHa, isoprene acetaldehyde, acrolein and short chain
nydrocarbon, Acrolein is the only acutely toxic product,
howover, the quantity produced during pyrolysis would bo
extromoly email. Aluminum dust can produce fibrosis of the
lunge after long-term exposure. The small amount in this
tapo will not result in any adverse health offecte.

A atioky black substance was found on conveyor rollers of &
filter maker. This material wae analyzed and found to contain
a atyrone-vinylacotate-othy lone terpolymer. This is probably
an acoumlation of the hot-ne?t adhesive used on the rilters.
The vee of 1,2,l-trichloroethsne was svayested to help romove

the adhesive build up.