Hstablishment of the Center for Indoor Air Research (CIAR) ~

Dr. Charles Green (ETS) and Mr. Tom Ogburn (RIRT Public
Issues) accompanied Mr. G. H. Long to the Tobacco IJnstitutoe’s
Executive Committee meeting and presented a proposal for the
creation of the Center for Indoor Air Research. Drs. Tom
Osdene and Jack Nelson from Philip Morris, and Dr. Alex Spears
of Lorillard were also present to support the CIAR. The
function of this new organization is to encourage and support
research in the broad area of indoor air quality with special
emphasis on studies that place the role of ETS into proper
perspective. Reynoles, Philip Morris, and Lorillard agreed to
funid the center while Brown & Williamson declined to
participate. Executives from the funding companies granted
permission for an _ executive director to be hired. An
excellent candidate has been interviewed and final background
checks are in progress bofore an offer will be extended.

ITEMS OF GENERAL INTEREST TO RED
Biobehavioral Research

oO Psychophysiology of Smoking - Dr. Walter Pritchard submitted a
proposal to the HRRC ontitled "Interactive Effects of
Smoking/Nicotine, Mental Stress, Personality, and Gender on

Evoked and Spontaneous Brain Wave Activity".

A manuscript authored by Dr. Pritchard titled "P300 and
EPQ/STPI Forsonality Traits" was accepted for publication by
Personality and Individual bifferences. This research was
done with the assistance of Ms. Sandra Ingram as part of
RIRT’s participation in the Bio-logic Systems Corp. normative

data collection program.

Support to Brand R&D - Ne. Patricia McKaig finished scoring
psychometric data collected during tho recent replication of
the WINSTON-Marlboro study. A preliminary analysis by Dr.
Walter Pritchard found that 14 of 64 subjoctse had olevated
scores on the Eysonck Personality Questionnaire (FPQ) Lie
scale, and thus invalid psychometric data (of these, 10 were
WINSTON smokers). Preliminary analyeis of the romaining data

indicated no brand rolations significant at the p < .05 level.
The remaining smokings from a study complated for Mr. J.
Lawson (Brand R&D), in support of Project GT wore replicated
on the human mimic smoking machine (HMSH). Eight pnokings
from the WINSTON-Marlboro study wore replicated on the HMSM.
; This completes all the wmokings that have boon magsaged and
pitied ounroaded* for rep) doationrApproximately~40-snokinge~renal nen
from the WINSTON-Marlboro study to bo massaged and downloadad
for replioation. ‘

ztze fzeeS