ree pecreeree ta
CaS ARTY Sh RR TET IIE
Re PACES Bian hi aR bots

a PP Se ” a as “2 .
i. TR ee LLP aoe es aS

center_of Excel lence_in Toxicology

pr. Pau) Bruns requested assistance with nitrosamine analyses _e ‘7
with Nabisco Brands. These analyses will be required in order

to 1nespond to California’s proposition 65. Dr. Bill Caldwell ean
furniehed his nitrosanine procedure which had been optimized ea
for tobacco. . in

pr. scott Appleton expanded the protocol for caloric
availability of a material supplied by Nabisco Brands.

Environmental Tobacco Smoke

o Indoor Air uality - In our breakroom project at C.L.R.
Manufacturing, to demonstrate the utility of portable air .
cleaning equipment, before-installation ETS measurements were oe a:

made. The nicotine concentrations are generally three to four FY
times higher than concentrations which we have measured in

"smoky bar" environments, €-9++ village Tavern. Analysis of

particulate samples is underway. Sampling continues in the us
break-room with the air cleaner operating in the “low fan" me
mode.

o Nicotine Analysis Intercompa rison Study At Yale Univers ity -

Arrangements were made by Dr. Delbert Eatough of BYU for an
intercomparison study of ETS nicotine in the environmental

chamber of Dr. Brian leaderer at Yale. Scientists originally 5
scheduled to participate in the study ware resoarchers from ae
BYU, Yale, Harvard, Univ. of Mass., ORNL, EPA, and RJR. a,
However, on short notice, the ORNL and EPA groups declined
participation. This study jis the first of its kind and will

attempt to correlate nicotine quantitation by the various
collection/analysis schemes used by the most active

participants {in ETS research. The various sampling procedures

used by the participants are:

BYU - 2-stago annular denuders coated with benzene sulfonic

acid (BSA), filter packs consisting of an untreated Teflon

filter followed by 4 BSA-saturated glass-fiber filter,

passive sampling devices containing & pSA-saturated::... reneged
glass~fiber filter, and Tenax sampling tubos.

Yale - filter pack consisting of a Teflon-coated quartz
filter followed by the samo filter saturated with sodium
bisulfate.

U. Mans. - same as Yale, plus passive sampling devices
containing sodium bisulfate-saturatod, Teflon-coated quartz
filter.

‘

Hervard ~ mini-annular cenuder coated with citrio acid
followed b a Taflon fister foilowed by 4 citria
pold-couted fiitor, and a filter pack oonsisting of a
rofion filter Zollowed by a citric acid-ooated filter.

$
oe
tv
"
®
Ww
»