Industrial Hygiene - Work continued ot material safety data
sheet data entry. Mr. Mike Edens and Mr. David Taylor met
with Dr. Rob Suber to discuss the current need for program
development. Dr. Suber agreed to allow Ms. Angie Bostrom to
develop the needed programs. Approximately two solid weeks of
Ms. Bostrom’s time will be needed in mid-December and an
additional two weeks in mid-February.

Mr. Mike Edens agreed to evaluate the personal protection
needs of water treatment chemicals handled in the Whitaker
Park area. Whitaker. Park utility Services Management

requested CHEPSVATUMETON TOPE the purpose of ‘including personal:

protection equipment into operating procedures. Currently,
personal protective equipment is being used, but there is no
formal policy governing its use.

Mr. Fred Best, Dr. Don deBbethizy, and Dr. Charlie Nystrom were
appointed to _ serve on the Radiological Health Safety
Comnittee’s Subcommittes for esearch and Devel opment

activities.

Mr. Doug Beasoy replaced twelve "Notice to Employces" signs in
Bowman Gray Technical Center laboratories with our newly

printed ones.

Mr. David Taylor mot with the SARA Title I11/Emergency
Planning and Comnunity-Right-to-Know Task Force to:

,. Critique the AVOCA Emergency Response Plan,

2, Develop a 1988 schedule for completing internal
response plans for Budldings 200, 604, 605, and Bailey
and Tobaccoville Utilities, and

3, Review the North Carolina OSHA Hazardous Waste
Operations and Emergency Response Standard.

Mr. David Taylor and Mr. Doug Beasey met with Messrs. Armando
Sjoman and Poulo Hernandon from RIRTI Brazil to discuss tho
pafo handling of radioactive materials.

Mr. Doug Beasey mot with Mr. Mark Snow, Instructor of Lasor
safet at 50-1, to review laser safoty conputor-based

training domo disks.

Mr. David Taylor is working with Tobacooville porsonnel and
painting contractore to agaist them with onsuring propor
porsonnel protective equipment and work/rost rogime practicun
aro utilized. This contractor iw removing paint from the C&C
aren Of" qopaccovitre faciiity"is-en-extranery-noteenvironme nt.

‘LIZ@ TZBOS