o Support to NPT ~ Data analysis and preparation of the document
describing methods and results for use by the NPT Group
continued. Current data and results from the pharmacokinetic .
and urine mutagenicity smoking behavior studies were submitted
for integration into the document describing the entire Human

Study.

o Smoke Component Dose ~ Dr. George Doellgast of Elcatech, Inc.
provided a proposal for further development of the ELISA
method for determination of nicotine and cotinine in plasma
and urine. His timetable is around 6 months for completing
this work. A meeting to determine whether we wish to pursue
his proposal is scheduled.

Mr. Mitch Stiles continued evaluation of PeakPro system on
CAIS 1. Some activities, such as analyzing files, seem
slightly more time consuming than with previous software, but
in many cases one is given more control over the activity.

o Nicotine Receptor Pharmacology - A monoclonal, anti-idiotypic
antibody (420G11), obtained from Dr. John Langone (Baylor
College of Medicine), was used to label nicotinic receptor
sites located on the surface of cultured rat cortical neurons.
Sites were visualized using indirect immunofluorescence. The
binding appeared to bo specific since the fluorescent labeling
was. blocked by nicotine. Methods are presently being developed
to archive the data. Photomicrography has been made more
difficult because of the low level fluorescent signals which
are involved. These results are consistent with previous
exporiments that demonstrated blockade of (3H)-nicotine

binding by anti-idiotypes.

 

© Miscellaneous - Comments on the recently held Biobehavioral
Conference on Sponsored Nicotine Research were received from
Dr. Peter Dows, Harvard University. These commenta will be
circulated to management this week.

Toxicology Research
o Special Toxicology

A proliminary report was completed on the human nicotine
pharmacokinetic study for inclusion in a document being
prepared by Dr. J. R. Hayes.

o Genetic Toxicology

sain oreo POLY samples: from the NPY group are ourrently. being. evaluated... ..... Hi
for gonotoxieity in the Amos test (strains TASB and TA100) and
the mammalian battery (UD3, SCE, CA and CHO-HGPRT). ‘ The
ganples are Carbridgo-pad oxiraoted particulate mettor from
the moinstroam aerosol of tost olgarettos. Amen repulte are
oxpooted in December 1987; UDS, ECE and CA resulta aro
expected in January 1980) and CHO-HGPRT result# are expooted
{ri Fobruary 1986.

ZeRZOS

cize