Cytokine Expression in the CNS: Correlation with the Expression of Neuronal Nicotinic
Acetylcholine Receptors

Introduction

Senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (Alzheimer’s disease, AD) is characterized by
gliosis and deposits of R-amyloid protein in various regions of the cerebral cortex and
hippocampus. Changes in the expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) have
been observed in the early stages of AD and smoking can delay the onset of this disease
suggesting that smoking may alter the expression of nAChR. Are there other factors that may
contribute to the observed changes in nAChR expression associated with AD? One molecule
that may play a regulatory role in the CNS is !L-1. The cytokine IL-1 induces inflammation and
immunity in the peripheral immune system, but in the CNS IL-1 induces astrogliosis,
cholinergic neuron sprouting, and the production of amyloid proteins. Further, brain IL-1 is
elevated in AD. The purpose of this application is to determine whether changes in cytokine
expression occur in conjunction with and perhaps resulting from, changes in nAChR
expression.

Ongoing studies in my laboratory suggest an overlap in the expression of members of the IL-1
family (IL-1, IL-18, and IL-1ra) and members of the nAChr family in the CNS as measured by
in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. | have also observed that the expression of
some members of each family are co-regulated in PC12 cells subsequent to differentiation into
neuronal-like cells by nerve growth factor (NGF) or into chromaffin-like cells by
dexamethasone. These findings are consistent with the notion that there exists a regulatory
interplay between IL-1, NGF, and nAChRs in the CNS.

The experiments to be proposed will investigate the possibility that the expression of a
cytokine in the CNS both enhances the action of trophic factors that alter the expression of
nAChRs and whose expression in turn is modified by the production of nAChRs.

Background

An extended family of related cDNAs that encode functional neuronal nAChRs has been
identified. The mammalian neuronal nAChR family consists of at least six a-like subunits
(designated a2, a3, a4, a5, a6, and a7) and three Q-like subunits (designated R2, 3, and R4).
/n situ hybridization has demonstrated that RNA for each of these subunits is expressed in
unique, but overlapping, regions of the rat brain. The significance of this result is further
supported by studies where the pair-wise injection of in witro synthesized RNA encoding an
alpha and a beta subunit into Xenopus oocytes has shown that the pharmacology and single
channel properties of the resulting receptors varies with changes in subunit composition.
Although the subunit composition of a native rnammalian nAChR remains to be determined,
the high affinity *H-nicotine binding sites have been shown to be composed predominantly of
a4+82 subunits and the '”5!-a-bungarotoxin site corresponds with the expression of the a7
subunit. As will be detailed below, | propose to combine the use of in situ hybridization and
immunchistochemistry to address the question of co-expression and regulation of nAChRs and
IL-1.

Similar to the nAChRs, the IL-1 family consists of distinct molecules that are related by
similarity in size and structure. Of the three known IL-1 molecules, two, IL-1a@ and IL-18, bind
to the iL-1 receptor (IL-1R) to induce a pro-inflammatory response. The third member of this
family, IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) competes with IL-1a@ and IL-1 for binding of the
receptor but fails to activate the receptor signalling pathway upon binding. Hence IL-1ra is