Reprinted from the Archive. of Environmental Health
June 1974, Volume 28
Copyright 1974, Americen Medical Association

HREOEGTOdS

Smoking, Weight Change, and Age

A Longitudinal Analysis

Arthur J. Garvey, PhD, Boston; Ruymond Bosse, PhD, Brookline, Mass; Carl

white voterans during 8 five-year period In
order to determine the effects cf age and
of change in smoking status on change tn
body woight. In general, regerdioss of age
cohort, @ greater number of excigarette
amokers gained weight, more welyht than

However, excigeretis

change. The fear of gaining weight is
often alluded to by smokers as 8 rea-
gon for mot quitting. Yet, it is
not known tc what extent recorded
weight gain in those who give up
cigarette smoking is g-tually caused
by aging. In this respect, the Na-

fore the
rontologica) ety Meeting, San Juan, Poarto
Rigo, Dee 81, 1978.

From the Normative Aging Stody. VA Qut-

Aen Environ Health/Voi 28. June 1974

tional Health Survey statistics using
weight a3 a separate index" or in the
form of ponderal index* present evi-
dence that men, on the average, show
a steady increase in weight from age
18 to 44, tittle change from 45 to 68,
and a decrease in weight from 64 on.

Since there appears to be a trend
toward increasing body weight in
male adylts below the age of 45, this
raises the question as to whether the
weight gained by former amokers is
attributable to smoking cessation or
is an effect of aging.

Unfortunately many of the studies
that have examined the relationship
of smoking cessation to weight gain
have foeused on cross-sectionaldata.""
An analysis based on longitudinal
data, the Comatock and Stone study,"
confounds the problem by using 8 re-
stricted age range (40 to 60 years)
and by not having controlled for the
fact that men (undifferentiated for
amoking habita) below the age of 45
years tend to gain weight as they get
older.

In the present etudy, however, the

age-weight factor is controlled
patient ; the Ni
ure 8 in ellesie i srook.

‘Veterans A

Coart Bt, Boston, MA 02108 (Dr. Garvey).

C. Seltzer, PhD, Boston

through an analysis of weight change
by age cohorts and emoking habits.
This permits a determination of the
portion of weight change attributable
to smoking habit and the part attrib-
utable to age.

Materiel and Methods

The subjects in this study were 870
healthy, adult male veterans ages 20 to 69
years who live and work in the greater
Boston ares. The subjects are part of
a larger population of about 2190 men who
are enrolled in the Normative Aging
Stady, a longiadinal stody Cat begen it

Tho 870 were men for whom cigarette
smoking information was available at two
successive time periods, time 1 (1963 to
1969) and time 2 (1970 to 1978). The Nor-
mative Aging Stady is part of the in:
tramural medical research
Yoterans Adininistration and is located in
the Boston Veterans Administration Out-
patient Clinic.'* Subjects undergo a bat-
tery of tests in many disciplines in & recur-
ring five-year cycle. Recorded every five

emoking change and chronological age
wero significantly associated with weight
change over & five-year period. ln this
study, smoking behavior was examined
only in regard to cigarette emoking.

Smoking, Weight Change, and Age/Garvey etal 337