PHILIP MORRIS U. S. AL
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE —
LS .” RECHMOND, VIRGINIA

 

Tor. Dr. E. B. Sanders oo ares “os. pater January 12, 1982

, -

From: &#. Grubbs dnd R. Southwick Co

Subject: , Kudzu As Tobacco Flavoring Source Fo

 

 

“In 1978, workers from the Japan Tobacco and Public Salt
. Corporation published an account of the constituents :of an
.... . essential oil of kudzu,. a plant indigenous to Japan. Investi- ...-
“toon Gation of the oil was prompted by a much earlier report tha et Ry RR
-~ Kudzu leaves could be a good substitute for tobacco. Of - ae
particular interest was the finding that the essential oil con-
tained damascenone, approximately 2mg per 10kg of leaf, as well
...as lesser amount of megastigmatrienones. The quantity of © =. -
'damascenone in kudzu is significantly greater than is found in
<-> - Fose flowers, where it was first discovered, or in tobacco, for
_: ? .Which.damascenone is.a significant flavor contributor. ot: ..

  

-<="""Kudzu is an introduced species currently rampant in the Lo,
-'* southeastern United States. The plant was introduced by USDA =~... -
--:-with the expectation that it would provide erosion control and ou
cattle feed. Neither of these goals were completely. successful;
in particular, cattle appear to place kudzu leaves at the very
bottom of their dietary preferences, somewhere. between pine
needles and starvation.. As a consequence, the rapidly propagating
kudzu plant has not had any effective natural restraints and
presently covers large areas in the Southeast. In the Richmond
area, which appears to lie on the northern boundary of its range,
' several large patches may be observed along Interstate 95 near
Colonial Heights. .. . ; a a

 

--. Prior to the. onset of the growing season for kudzu, which
coincided with growing interest in using damascenone as a flavor
-- additive, we made plans to conduct a cursory longitudinal study
"Of kudzu leaves. From information in the literature, it was
not clear at what stage of leaf development the Japanese workers
' had obtained their material. They reported that the leaves were
collected in November, 1976, in Yokohama and describe them as
“aged kudzu leaves".

 

GPTOZOSOOT

We determined that our requirements were a source of leaves
which would be available during the complete growing season,
would be exposed to minimal environmental contamination and would
not be nor had not been treated with herbicides. Permission was
obtained to collect leaves at a site-in Goodwin Lake State Park,
The first collection was made in late June, about one month after
leaf appearance. This particular crop was investigated in several
ways to determine which method of investigation would be most
expedient.

The green leaf was air-dried and then a portion (380g) was
extracted in a Soxhlet with methylene chloride. Approximately
: ee Se a tee a ig Ate di icas pian Specter bisa eae Ss caramel bi adi ee a Se ne

     

not etwas BSL Se taciies