oe

.50 percent of the extract was removed and replaced with fresh
“. solvent followed by extraction of another 350g of dried green
“.... leaf. This methylene chloride extract (representing 540g of
‘leaf) was concentrated at reduced pressure to give about 30g
< of green oil. The green oil was taken up in 95% ethanol and
. ‘filtered. An aliquot was removed for subjective evaluation and
-.. the remainder was photooxygenated. The resulting light yellow Does
~ -“ golution was concentrated at reduced pressure to give 5g of . ne
<i. yellow oil which was diluted with water and steam distilled. ” .
*--. The steam distillate was extracted with methylene chloride to
' yield less than 700mg of yellow oil having a vegetable- ~green
aroma. - Ls

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

Pat The remaining methylene chloride extract (representing
190g of leaf) was concentrated under reduced pressure to yield
-lOg of green residue which was steam distilled, extracted with

methylene chloride and concentrated to give 100mg of yellow oil
having a Sharp, green, tea-like aroma.

so An ‘additional. portion of green ‘leat (100g) was submitted
to live steam distillation to give a distillate with pleasant
‘tea-like aroma. The distillate was extracted with methylene
‘chloride and the extract concentrated to yield 65mg of residue
favre a Boney-tea aroma.

Bach ‘of the organic isolates was applied to tobacco at
“approximately 200ppm and evaluated subjectively. The extract
obtained by direct steam distillation of the leaf gave the most
'. interesting subjective response. The extract appeared to in-
_e@rease fullness and tobacco-taste without an objectionable in-
crease in the green notes which the other treatments introduced.
Since the direct steam distillation of the. leaf was also the
-... simplest of the isolation methods examined this was taken as a
__ Standard method for later collections. —

Pye . The next collection ‘of leaves was made in early August, by
_. .s: Which time some leaves had begun to yellow. Green and yellow
ry. leaves were collected separately and subjected to steam distil-_
-. lation. The green leaves gave an oil whose aroma and flavor
properties were not significantly different than observed earlier.
' There was no significant quantity of damascenone present in the
- mixture. The material obtained from steam distillation of the
yellow leaves showed a significant amount of damascenone and
Subjectively exhibited a more pleasant and complex flavor than
the green material. The yellow leaves may correspond to the
“aged leaves" described in the Japanese report.

 

The final collection was made in early November following
a killing frost. The leaves were a dark brown-green with much
less moisture. Steam distillation of 415g of leaf yielded 160mg
of brown-yellow oil. Subjectively the oil gave a sweet, juicy-—
fruit complex flavor with enhanced Bright tobacco character.
. Much of this same character was perceptible when kudzu leaf was

OSTOZOSOOT

 

f ee ee : eo : : ge ett
ene ill ecdaic cc Se isch lke ts sn REN  Stais MP BRED a Fast EREIA netnebaiecce «  cncallia 4 ei ema