THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPP] MEDICAL CENTER
2500 North State Street
JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI 39216

Department of Microbiology December 20, 1979 aires
>

Dr. Robert C. Hockett

Research Director

The Council for Tobacco Research-USA Inc.
110 East 59th Street

New York, New York 10022

    

Bs ee

F . }
W Bice Hae poe ce wie wed
Dear Dr. Hockett:

Thank you for your letter of December 5, 1979 informing me of the
procedures for submitting a research grant application. I have
followed your advice and have outlined the research projects being in-
vestigated in my laboratory. I trust this information will be considered
by the Scientific Advisory Board, and I look forward to their decision.

Research Problem

I. Background - We are investigating the biological and biochemical
aspects of herpesvirus oncogenesis by employing three related equine
herpesviruses (EHV) which have proven to be ideal model systems as the
three viruses share DNA sequences but differ markedly in biological
activities (see review provided, O'Callaghan et al., 1978). In the last
year we have shown that UV-irradiated virus or standard virus preparations
enriched for defective interfering (DI) particles will transform primary
hamster (inbred LSH) embryo cells, and several cell lines transformed by
each of these herpesviruses have been established. We have demonstrated
that the EHV-1 and EHV~2 (cytomegalovirus) cell lines are oncogenically
transformed and have established numerous tumor cell lines from the

tumor tissues (malignant fibrous sarcomas that metastasize to lung, heart,
bone, and CNS); the EHV-3 transformed cells have been inoculated into
hamsters within the last two weeks.

In the case of the EHV-1 system, DNA hybridization analyses have shown
that cells of transformed cell lines, tumor tissues, and tumor cell lines
harbor viral DNA sequences (3-20% of the genome; 0.3-4.0 copies/ceil).

Some of these viral genes are retained even after prolonged (+100 passages)
passage in either cell culture or in the animal (transplantable tumors),

and the expression of these viral DNA sequences has been shown by 1) demon-
stration of antibody to EHV-1 proteins in the sera of tumor bearing hamsters
and 2) detection of viral structural and nonstructural proteins in the cell
membranes and perinuclear space by immunofluorescence. Presently, blot
hybridization analyses are being carried out in which individual restriction
endonuclease fragments (labeled to high specific activity by nick translation)
are being employed to identify and quantitate the specific EHV-1 genomic

50222862