Dr. Robert C. Hockett Page 2 December 20, 1979

sequences harbored in these cells. Experiments to date reveal that
EHV-1 transformed and tumor cells contain several viral DNA sequences

in an integrated state, but that sequences located at map position 0.33-
0.40 are common to all cells. Although prolonged passage of these cells
may result in the deletion of some viral fragments, it appears that DNA
sequences located at the 0.33-0.40 position in the L region of the viral
genome are selectively retained and that cells harboring these sequences
continue to synthesize viral polypeptides.

In addition to the transformation system obtained with UV-irradiated
EHV-1, another transformation system has been established by employing
live EHV-1 virus preparations that contain DI particles generated by
serial, high multiplicity passage. These DI particles have been characterized
and have been shown to interfere with the replication gf standard virus
and to contain 4 genome that is more dense (1.724 g/cm”) than standard
DNA (1.716 g/cm”), less genetically complex (DNA hybridization), and 6
comprised of DNA sequences that originate from the S region (20.4 x 10 6
of the standard genome and exist as repeated sequences to form a 90 x 10
molecule (see reprints and preprints provided). Of great significance was the
finding that hamster embryo cells transformed by virus containing DI particle
preparations are a mixed population of 1) transformed cells that harbor
viral DNA sequences and express viral proteins but are virus nonproducers
and 2) persistently infected cells that release infectious virus and
account for 3 to 20% of the total cell population. Inoculation of newborn
hamsters with these transformed - persistently infected cell populations
(designated DI 1, DI 2, ete to DI 10) results in a fulminant, lethal
hepatitis due to release of infectious virus, whereas inoculation of
immunologically-mature (+3 week) hamsters results in either the development
of fibrous sarcomas (DI 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10) or a runting syndrome which
is followed by delayed development of fibrous sarcomas (DI 1, 2, 3, 4).
All sarcoma tissues and tumor cell lines established from tumors have been
shown to be virus non-producers but to contain viral DNA sequences (20-577
of the genome; 1-5 copies per cell) and to express viral antigens. Initial
Southern blot hybridization analyses of these DI-tumor DNA's revealed that
these cells contain all sequences present in the § region of the viral
genome - the same sequences that comprise the DI genome — but also contain
the same L region sequences (Bgl II fragment G; EcoRL fragment A) present
in cells transformed by UV-irradiated standard EHV-1. These findings suggest
that these L region DNA sequences mediate transformation, and this basic
question will be investigated in detail (see below).

The EHV-2 (cytomegalovirus) transformed and tumor cell lines and the
candidate EHV-3 transformed cells are now being analyzed for biological
properties and for viral DNA sequences (see below).

Since a major goal of this research concerns the identification of
specific viral genes expressed in herpesvirus oncogenesis and determination
of whether these genes are identical in the case of the three related
herpesviruses, it is necessary that the genomic structure of these viral
genomes (standard EHV-1, EHV-1 DI particles, EHV-2, and EHV-3) be eluci-
dated and the nature and location of shared DNA sequences be determined.

50222863

 

 

ee Bel