Dr. Robert C, Hockett Page 4 December 20, 1979

3. To identify and quantitate viral DNA sequences present in

transformed and tumor cell lines established by infection with UV-irradiated
EHV-1, EHV-1 DI particle preparations, EHV-2, or EHV-3. Cellular DNA's

of these cells and tumor tissues will be restricted with various

enzymes and fractionated by high pressure liquid chromatography on RCP-5
resin. Fractions of these DNA's will be separated by agarose gel electro-
phoresis and transfered to nitrocellulose paper by the Southern blot
procedure. Specific fragments, radiolabeled by nick translation, of the
viral genomes will be employed in hybridization analyses to ascertain which
viral DNA sequences are retained in the host DNA. In addition, cross
hybridization analyses using fragments of the other herpesvirus types

will be carried out to determine whether fragments shared by these viral
genomes are involved in oncogenic transformation.

4. To clone viral DNA sequences by recombinant DNA methodology. Re-
striction enzyme fragments of viral DNA extracted from either purified equine
herpesvirus type 1, type 2 (cytomegalovirus), or type 3 will be fractionated
by agarose gel electrophoresis, isolated from gel slices, and ligated by
enzymatic means to EcoRI "arms" of lambda phage DNA and this hybrid DNA
molecule will be ligated to the EK2 vector pBR 322 digested with EcoRI and
treated with alkaline phosphatase. This vector will be propagated in E. coli
X 1776 under conditions selective for plasmid replication. Plasmid DNA's will
be screened for viral DNA sequences by blot hybridization analyses, and
candidates containing a specific viral genomic fragment will be picked and
propagated in large quantities.

Viral DNA sequences that are cloned in this manner will be isolated from
the plasmid DNA by restriction enzyme methods and will be employed in trans~
fection experiments using mammalian cells to ascertain the biological and
biochemical function(s) of each fragment. In these experiments, the trans~
fected cells will be monitored for expression of viral enzymes (TdR kinase
and viral DNA polymerase by selective assays and use of anti enzyme anti-
bodies prepared in our laboratory), production of viral proteins by immuno-
fluorescent assays using antisera to specific viral structural and non-
structural proteins, altered morphology and growth properties, ability to
form colonies in soft, capacity to establish tumors in syngeneic animals,
etc. In addition, these cloned fragments should be available in large
quantities to aid in biochemical studies. Therefore they will be radio-
labeled by nick-translation and used as a probe to identify areas of homology
among the three viral genomes and used to identify viral genes in viral
transformed and persistently infected cells that have been developed in
out labroatory.

ALL EXPERIMENTS WILL BE CARRIED OUT IN OUR P2 LABORATORY AND ALL EXPERIMENTS
HAVE BEEN APPROVED BY THE INSTITUTIONAL BIOSAFETY COMMITTEE.

 

50222865