Dr. Robert C. Hockett Page 3 December 20, 1979

Within the last few months, we have determined the structure of the standard
EHV-1 genome by employing restriction enzyme mapping approaches and are now
completing the map of the EHV-1 DI genome. Briefly, the FHV-1 genome ig

a 92x 10° dalton molecule which is comprised ef an L region (71.6 x 10°)
which cannot invert and an § region (20.4 x 10°) which can invert due to the
presence of repeated inverted sequences that bracket a region of unique
sequences (U_). Thus, the molecule exists in two structural forms due to
the inversion of the $ region which therefore contains 0.5M restriction
fragments. Structural maps for EcoRI, Xba, Bgl II, and Bam HI have already
been obtained for standard EHV-1 DNA. The genome of the DI particle

species used to establish transformed cells and persistently infected

cells has been shown to be comprised of reiterated DNA sequences originating
from the § region, and experiments to yield a detailed map of this DNA
species are now in progress, Lastly, the EHV-2 (cytomegalovirus) genome

has been, shown by physicochemical and restriction enzyme methods to be a

121 x 10° dalton molecule, and its genomic structure as well as that of
EHV-3 are now being investigated.

II. Research Aims and General Plan of Investigation.

1. To elucidate the structure of the genomes of EHV-2, EHV~3, and EHY51 DI
particles used to establish oncogenic transformation. Radiolabeled CP,
H-TdR) viral DNA will be isolated from purified particles and analyzed

by restriction enzyme methods in the following experimental approach:

a. primary enzyme cleavage of DNA to ascertain the number, size, and
molar concentration of restriction enzyme generated fragments,

b. identification of end fragments by determining which fragments
are susceptible to digestion with lambda exonuclease and which
fragments are labeled in a terminal labeling reaction using poly-
nucleotide kinase.

c. ordering of fragments by use of secondary digestion of primary

fragments; several sets of reciprocal digestions will be

carried out and reciprocal digestion data will be augmented with

double digestion data. 32

Southern blot hybridization of individual °“P-labeled (by nick

translation) fragments to confirm that the DNA sequences in a

fragment of one enzyme are contained in one or more fragments

of another enzyme.

a

These methods have been employed in our laboratory to map the genome
of EHV~1,

2. To identify the viral DNA sequences shared by these three related herpes-
viruses whose genomes have 5-10% genetic homology. In addition to DNA-DNA
hybridization analyses to determine the percent of genetic homology,
individual and groups of restriction enzyme fragments of each viral genome
will be radiolabeled and cross~hybridized to separated fragments ("blots")

of the other genomes. These data considered in light of those of mapping
studies will allow map positions of the related and identical sequences to
be assigned and will indicate similarities in the genomic arrangements of
these herpesviruses.

50222864