HILT RRI A. INTER-OFFICE RESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

TO: Gina Fawcett DATE: = April 17, 1995
FROM: ‘Patrick Piscitelli
SUBJECT: Marlboro Ultra Lights Test Market

As we discussed, the following forwards for your review the background information concerning
the Marlboro Ultra Lights test market along with specific trade issues.

Background

Marlboro Ultra Lights Kings and 100's were introduced into three test markets during 1989.
These markets were Indianapolis, IN, and Portland, OR, on April 17, 1989, and Nashville, TN,
on September 18, 1989. During 1994, the test market was expanded to include Kentucky. The

Marlboro Ultra Lights test market is now in its sixth year.

Our objective has been to restore and maintain Marlboro Ultra Lights to the four test markets and
restrict further distribution outside the designated area.

Trade Issue

Marlboro Ulira Lights has been found in a number of retail stores outside the test market areas.
This has been an issue for almost as long as the brand has been available. Approximately 70 of
our direct customers are selling Marlboro Ultra Lights to about 4,000 retail accounts located
outside the designated test market areas. The product has been found in 21 states. These are
preliminary numbers based on data received from the STARS group.

Selected wholesalers use Marlboro Ultra Lights as leverage to win over retail accounts (located
outside the test market) from their competitors. This creates an unfair sales advantage for those
wholesalers not designated as Marlboro Ultra Lights distributors.

Retailers have used similar tactics to gain distribution of Marlboro Ultra Lights. A retailer will
demand their distributor to supply the product or else they will take their business elsewhere. For
example, Clark Oil (a chain of 800 stores throughout the Midwest) threatened to take their business
to a wholesaler that could supply them with Marlboro Ultra Lights. In addition, a Sam's Club in
Indianapolis allegedly solicited retail accounts in Northwest Indiana.

Please note, the sales organization has attempted at least two times in the past to contain
distribution of the test market. Philip Morris notified direct customers by letter in April 1991 and

May 1992 that we would discontinue selling test market product to any customer selling outside the

designated area.
If you have any questions, please Jet me know.
icv

ce: §, Jannetta
M. Zieser

eSecos130c