II. Isolating "novel" DIN genes induced by ionizing radiation.

The strain construction described above may also be used to isolate novel DIN genes
that are preferentially expressed when cells are irradiated with X-rays. A yeast library has
been obtained from Michael Snyder (Yale University) in which the Escherichia coli lacZ
gene encoding f-galactosidase has been randomly inserted within the yeast genomic DNA
by virture of a transposable element containing the yeast selectable marker LEU2; the lacZ
construct lacks translational start sites and must be fused to a functional gene in order for
expression to occur. The library DNA will be used to transform yeast to Leu+, and Leu+
transfomants will be then patched and replica plated onto plates containing X-gal (a
chromogenic indicator that turns blue when cleaved by #-galactosidase). Leu + transformants
which express -galactosidase preferentially in response to ionizing radiation will then be
further characterized. The chromosomal assignment of these genes will be made by pulse
field electrophoresis using lacZ as a probe. Genes which map to positions not previously
assigned to DIN genes will be studied. Experiments will be done to determine whether the
genes are expressed when either the MAT locus is cleaved or when only chromosome IV is
cleaved. Since antibodies are available to 8-galactosidase we may then be able to determine
the cellular localization of the fusion protein. Further experiments will be performed to
replace the wild-type gene with a mutated or disrupted gene made in vitro, and determine
whether any of these de novo mutants are radiation sensitive.

We anticipate that the duration of the project to be three years. Direct costs/yr = $55,000

References:

Fornace, A. 1992 Mammalian Genes induced by radiation; Activation of Genes
Associated with Growth Control. Annu. Rev. Genet 26, 507-526.

Hallahan,D.E., Virudachalam, S., Sherman, M.L, Huberman, E, Kufe, D. W.,
Weichselbaum, R. R. 1991. TNF gene expression is mediated by PKC following
activation by ionizing radiation. Cancer Res. 51:4565-4569.

Herrlich, P. Ponta, H., Rahmsdorf, HJ. 1992, DNA damage induced gene exrpression:
signal transduction and relation to growth factor sinaling. Rev. Physio.Biochem.
Pharmacol. In press.

Ruby, S. W., Szostak, J. W. 1985. Specific Saccharomyces cerevisiae genes are expressed in
response to DNA-damaging agents. Mol. Cell. Biol 5:75-84.

INDUCTION OF HO EHDOHUCLEASE INDUCES THE EXPRESSION OF D1NI

 

 

ccus io cur site

w ve seatnt } tpt gard

a 0 =

3 cre a

£ oaup.00

‘ | 008) peer

: — aueres |

z cena

5 (aes ups galt

fp
2 ‘ ‘ . cena Seat

Qe s

HOURS AFTEA INDUCTION OF HO EMDOHUCLEASE

Induction of HO. endonuclease induces DINI as measured by 6-gal assays in a strain that
has only one cut site.

50628624