stimulate DIN genes. Second, the use of lacZ fusions in yeast to isolate novel genes that are
radiation inducible and the characterization of such genes according to whether they are
induced directly by double-strand breaks.

Proposal:

The scheme employed to address the mechanism of how a single double-strand break
can induce DIN utilizes HO endonuclease to generate a double-strand break, an enzyme
which catalyzes mating type switching. This avoids the problem of cellular damage and the
other DNA lesions caused by ionizing radiation, including membrane and protein damage,
that could, hypothetically, induce DIN genes. In addition, plasmid constructions are available
in which the HO endonuclease gene is under the control of the GAL promoter, so that by
adding galactose or glucose, the HO gene can either be expressed or repressed, respectively.
Finally, there is only one DNA locus at which HO endonuclease can cleave in yeast and this
is at the MAT locus on chromosome III. We have constructed a strain of yeast in which the
HO cut site has been removed from the wild-type chromosome IIT locus and positioned on
chromosome IV at the trp] locus, using standard techniques of molecular cloning and gene
replacement. This HO cut site is also contained within a recombinational substrate so that
by interchromosomal! recombination (ectopic recombination) it can be removed (see figure).
The removal of the HO cut site serves as a control to demonstrate that when HO
endonuclease is expressed and there is no HO cut site, the expression of damage-inducible
genes is not elevated.

Using this strain construction, we have been currently studying how damage-inducible
genes can be induced by the presence of a single double-strand break on chromosome IV.
Two damage-inducible genes have been studied separately: RNRI also known as DINI,
encoding the large subunit of ribonucleotide reductase and RAD54, a gene involved in the
repair of DNA damage induced by ionizing radiation. After cleavage at the chromosomal
IV site by HO endonuclease, the DIN genes are expressed within 3 to 5 hrs as measured by
B-galactosidase activity, the same amount of time required for the expression of these
damage inducible genes after cells are irradiated. Cleavage of this site is confirmed using
pulse field gel electrophoresis in which two fragments of chromosome IV are visible. The
consequence of this cleavage is that cells fail to form viable colonies, and preliminary
cytological data suggest that they die resulting from terminal cell cycle arrest. Interestingly,
in a strain in which the HO cut site is only on chromosome III, the expression of DINI is
not elevated when the MAT locus is cleaved. The assymetric degradation of the double-
strand break at MAT may explain the obersevation and is currently being explored.

In order to elucidate the mechanism by which the double-strand break is processed,
we propose to induce the DIN genes in strain backgrounds which fail to repair double-strand
breaks or which fail to process the double strand break. These experiments may be
informative in determining whether it is the presence of the double-strand break per se or
whether it is the processing or the degradation of the double-strand break that is important.
The induction of DIN genes will be determined in a rad52 mutant, in which double-strand
breaks are processively degraded by a 5’-3’ exonuclease leading to unusually long 3’
overhangs, and in a radS0S mutant, in which double-strand breaks are not processed.
Additional rad mutants of interest include rad1 and radJ0; the Rad1 and Rad10 proteins
are involved in excision repair and may also be involved in the degradation of double-strand
breaks. RAD10 is a homolog of the human ERCC1 gene that is involved in excision repair.

50628623