Molecular characterization of the signal for radiation-inducible genes and the isolation of
novel radiation-inducible genes in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae:

Michael Fasullo, Ph.D. Loyola University

Specific Aims:

Damage-inducible (DIN) genes have been cloned and characterized from many
organisims, including yeast, bacteria, and man. Many of these genes are induced by a variety
of DNA damaging agents that inflict a diverse spectrum of DNA lesions, including base pair
damage, cross-links, bulky adducts, and singie- and double-strand breaks. These DNA
damaging agents include chemicals that cause oxidative damage via the formation of free
radicals, similar to those found in tobacco smoke. The diversity of DNA lesions caused by
free radicals provokes the question of whether all these lesions can serve as the primary
signal for damage-induction or whether these lesions are processed to a common signal that
triggers the induction of DIN genes. The aim of this project is to focus specifically at
ionizing radiation as an agent that induces DIN genes in yeast, to elucidate the genetic
pathway by which a single double-strand break may serve as a signal for the induction of
such genes, and to isolate novel radiation-inducible genes that may be triggered directly by
the presence of DNA double-strand breaks. The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been
chosen for these experiments becuase many genes involved in the repair of radiation damage
are well defined and the molecular biology and genetics to address the phenotypes of
mutated genes is well advanced. In addition, roughly 1% of the yeast genome is speculated
to encode damage-inducible genes (Ruby and Szostak, 1985), only a few yeast genes have
been characterized as damage-inducible, and previous attempts to isolate DIN genes have
not utilized ionizing radiation as the DNA damaging agent-

Significance:

Human genes that are induced by ionizing radiation include TNFa, p53 , protein
kinase C, IL-1, collagenase and yadd45 (growth arrest and DNA damage). These and other
characterized genes represent a subset of a theoretically much larger set of genes (for review
see Fornace, 1992). Although the functional significance of the DIN genes has yet to be
explained, recent evidence has found that failure to induce gadd45 is correlated with
radiosensitivity in patients afflicted with Ataxia telangiectasia, and such patients have a
higher incidence of cancer, especially lymphomas. The induction of these genes by ionizing
radiation and free radicals may occur by a variety of signal transducing mechanisms.
Oxidative damage to membranes may trigger the expression of protein kinase C which
phophorylates transcription factors, such as jun, that in turn induce the expression of such
genes (Hallahan et al., 1991), although this may not be the mechanism of the induction of
gadd45. Alternatively, DNA damage may be the primary signal for the induction of damage-
inducible genes. This is suggested by the observation that cell lines that are defective in
damage repair have higher levels of the expression of particular damage-inducible genes
(Herrlich et al., 1992). Nonetheless, the signal transduction mechanism which is provoked
by a DNA lesion is poorly understood.

Elucidation of the pathway by which radiation-induced DNA lesions directly stimulate
DIN genes may be better addressed in yeast. This proposal is divided into the following
sections. First, elucidation of the mechanism by which a single double-strand break can

l

50628622