RD. _GIEMICAL RESEARCH DIVISION
1s Composition of Tobacco
— S82latiog of Compounds _of Zobagco

This month five new components were isolated (288 to date),
and one was identified (176 to date). This program, begun in the
mid-1930's, will be phased out during the coming several mouths.

bo_ Evaluation of Smoking Propartias of Tobacco Isolates

Preliminary evaluation of potency and flavor of 38 tobacco
constituents is complete. Several of the mre promising of these
will be evaluated further.

XIL._£hudy of Smoke gad Suoke Filtration

Properties of experimental filters made in a variety of physical
configurations from various adsorbents are being determined. Of par-
ticular interest is the discovery thet s roll filter of charcoal on
paper, where emoke is passed over but not through layers of carbon
coated on paper, is essentially as effective as a bonded carbon filter
of the same dimension. Evaluation of the roll filter is in progress.

IiL:_synthesis Studies
a-.. Zobacco Rlavorants
Syntheses of Turkish sugar esters and other leaf isclates with

promising flavoring properties continue. This work is aimed at
providing substantial quantities of flavorante for evaluation and

where evaluation is favorable, at establishing economical production

processes.

b-.. Erocasaeg and Frocaduras_for Divaratfications

New synthetic procedures which may lead to mre economical
production of known industrial products or to new products with
market potential are under investigation. Severel promising leads
are at hand. / It ie hoped that this project will lead to a ecorporat+
diveretfteatton into chemical products and materiale. 7

2Y.__Study of the Smoking Process

The fate of menthol, labelled with radioactive atoms, during emoking
ie under way. A similar study of citric acid, a major burley component
as well as a cigarette additive, will be undertaken in the near future.
These and similar studies should provide valuable information on the
characteristics and wechanisms of the smoking process.

G@6LS 0870S