ISSUE BRIEF
INDOOR AIR QUALITY (IAQ)

ISSUE

Since the energy crisis in the 1970’s, there has been a trend toward constructing
buildings with totally controlled indoor environments. These "tight" buildings, designed
to reduce energy costs, often expose occupants to poor indoor air quality, resulting in
what is known as “sick building syndrome.” Occupants’ complaints of eye irritation,
headaches, fatigue, sore throats and nausea may suggest problems in the design,
operation, or maintenance of a building’s ventilation or air handling system. Tobacco
smoke, because it is the only visible pollutant, has often been targeted as the major or
sole source of the problem.

While tobacco smoke is often blamed as the cause of indoor air quality problems, in
almost all cases, it is a symptom, not a cause. The National Institute for Occupational
Safety and Health (NIOSH) and private investigators have concluded that environmental
tobacco smoke (ETS) is a cause of discomfort by building occupants in only 2 to 4
percent of cases investigated. And even those cases, experts say, can be solved with
improved ventilation.

Serious health threats may exist from pollution sources such as office machine and
furnishing contaminants, chemicals from photocopiers, and sulfur dioxide from buildings’
heating systems. Furthermore, the lack of maintenance of ventilation systems allows
microbes, insects, fungi and bacteria to accumulate within the systems and circulate
throughout the building.

BACKGROUND

Indoor air quality legislation has three components. Simplified, they are ventilation
standards, indoor air quality studies and indoor air quality standards. The first indoor
air quality legislation to be considered required buildings to provide proper ventilation,
often by meeting generally accepted industry standards for ventilation as set by the
American Society of Health, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE).
In November of 1989, ASHRAE revised its standard, increasing its ventilation standard
for office buildings -- a three-to-four fold increase in fresh air requirements from the
1981 standard of 5 cubic feet per minute (cfm) per person. The old standard set two
separate ventilation rates, one for smoking areas (20 cfm) and one for nonsmoking areas
(5 cfm); the revised standard has one ventilation rate for both smoking and nonsmoking
areas (a minimum of 15 cfm).

Today, legislation has moved beyond merely removing the only visible indoor pollutant.
Many legislatures are interested in the wide range of serious indoor pollutants and
several have established Task Forces to study the sources of pollution as well as
promulgating rules to improve indoor environments.

11291-1987