CONMDEITEAL 110715020

Page 2

Moreover, one must assume that smoking itself did not produce
ventricular fibrillation and sudden death in these experiments for had they done
so, the authors would not have had to add the additional trauma of electric
shock. They therefore in a sense have proved that smoking alone does not produce
ventricular fibrillation and suddenteath. This is of course what most of us
have found clinically, namely that there is no close association between the act
of smoking and ventricular fibrillation and sudden death.

(2) I agree with you that those animals that turned out to be most
susceptible to ventricular fibrillation should have shown more evidence of pre-
existing premature ventricular beats.

(3) I agree also with you that the time course of events does not fit
in with the expected time course of events for intoxication with nicotine.

(4) No autopsy data are given. it is of course important to be
certain that the ligation of a coronary artery and the subsequent infarct was
the same in each group.

(5) In my judgment it is still extremely important to obtain the
actual raw data on pH, pC0o, PQ, blood pressure and temperature.

The authors state that the gas studies showed no significant changes
during smoking.

This appears to me to be remarkable because the dogs presumably
inhaled continucusly three Camel cigarettes. It would appear that the inspirec
air during smoking was almost entirely composed of smoke. Isaack and Rand
pointed out that experiments on"smoking animals" should have a smoke volume of
35 ml./250-300m]. of stroke volume, a ratio similar to that of a heavy smoker
and that the puffs should be intermittent. Incidentaliy, the authors did not
measure tracheal pressure er comment on the presence or absence of tracheal
secretations or symptoms suggestive o* nausea, etc.

I therefore wonder how often and precisely when during the experiments
the gas studies were perforined and therefore if hypoxia was actually excluded
as the mechanism for their results. Certainly hypoxia could explain all of their
results very simply. Perhaps an unannounced visit to their laboratory and an
examination of their raw data of the gas studies will answer this possibility.

(6) Figure I is pure decoration and adds nothing of substance to
the paper but simply emphasizes the fact wel] known to everybody that electric
shock can produce ventricular fibrillation.

Thank you again for the privilege of examining this paper.

ae as Treen