“CG: Pop we aephl TAAL

he .

ue usc | HKB1715019

TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HEALTH SCIENCES CENTER
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 19140

 

DIVISION OF CARDIOLOGY
LOuts A. SOLOFF, M.D.
FELIX M. CORTES, M.D.
MICHAEL T. MCDONOUGH. M.D.
HOWARD WARNER, M.D.
HAROLD L. RUTENBERG, M.0. June 18 ; 1971
ROBERT L. KRAUSE, M.D.

Robert C, Hockett, Ph.D.

Associate Scientific Director

The Council for Tobacco Research - U.S.A.
110 East 59th Street

New York, N.Y. 10022

Dear Dr. Hockett:

Thank you very much for the privilege of reading this manuscript. I
return it to you herewith and also enclose a copy of a recent article that has
some interesting and apparently contradictery findings, namely that the VST
returns to normal within a short time after experimental ligation of a coronary
artery.

I am still very much disturbed with the clinical implication of
this manuscript. As I wrote previously, the audience and the reader is con-
ditioned to accept the results without recognizing that the experiments
possibly lack clinical relevance. Thus.

(1) The authors point out that the Framingham study found that sudden
death from coronary artery disease was four times as high in the heavy smoker as
is the non-smoker. The authors also point out that the most likely cause for
sudden death is ventricular fibrillation.

What the authors fail to state is that neither the Framingham group
nor any other group found that sudden death from coronary artery disease occurs
predominantly while smoking or sooner after smoking. If this were so, there would
be little difficulty in proving cause and effect. On the contrary, the temporal
relation between smoking and sudden death has never been documented. Indeed a1}
evidence, at least within the hospital and within the Coronary Care Unit, indi-
cates that ventricular fibrillation with or without sudden death occurs without
immediate antecedent smoking. The experimental temporal relation therefore has
no counter part in clinical medicine. I do believe that these points should be
discussed and stressed in this article.