Anthony J. Celebrezze, Secretary of Health, Education and wer le 098 31 96
Washington newsmen that he didn't intend to give up smoking because of
the cancer scare. He said he didn't think government should tell the

individual to stop smoking.

THe NEW YORK TIMES
New York, New York
December 3, 1962

“both sides"—the tobacco in- emoking. Some wanted

dustry g.

and the voluntary health

CRLEBREZZE WAR organisations—and to the Gov- Seer sh packs labeled with a
oreover, none could 1¢ Mr. Celebrenze’n view does

ON SMOKING ISSUB sszsaisie: © roti stant om not incicate a suse sink,

emment.
the by
The Government has mapped jeast it pul
on emoking and health the mittee, under Surgeon Gen
By BOREBTO.TOTR — uring furtors, toch an ar pa and 10 to otganize its activi.
in-
Even if smoking is found harm: ample], radiation and alcohol.” _ Besides looking at lung can-
now reviewing
Government should not tell pe limited to the sclentisis’ con- (ween smo! and
Health, Education and Wi . "The second part of the pro. ‘Pokesman

 

Go She peeblene The firet

Would Not Bid Government we ae eral cage, Beton & Go com

Tell People to Stop hes scientific advisory
tific panel, The pane’ Will Luther £, ‘Terry, met Nov. 0
Spcemi to The New York Tunes Nation, industrial exposure. ties. Hach member was given

WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 halation of chemicals, for ex- Specific areas to study.

The I's rt is ted cer and heart disease, the panel
the evidence, the in the Spring or summer. It will will consider possible een
le to give up cigarettes, ac: clusions on the "nature and Ulcers, bladder cancer and em-
to ne of magnitude” of the hazard. physema (lung congestion), a

Anthony J. Celebreme, wh0 gram be undertak
took re dob four months! arter 2 a have only
ago, said it was their work, will !
Government to, get aa expert formulate be to

i
zg
g
5
Bz

a health decided.
before the public for it to dee wnrctition 8 Fears
re
cide what ction to take, Be the Government sald

added in an interview. con were
"t firmly believe that it 15 jt was
not the proper rote of the Fed: for
foaton snaking to tell citizens years ago the Sur
stop smi whatever the General, then Dr. Leroy
lets cottclude, he declared: Eumey, said the Government's
The Recretary. whose re position was that the evidence
bilities ude the Publle implicated smoking as “the
ealth Service and its National prin; etlological  [eausa-
Institutes of Health, the Food Brel factor in the increased in-
and the Administration eidence of lung cancer.” .
he Nad @ “realise attitude
e a attitude few scientists contend that any.
toward the subject. new evidence will reverse It.
Examples Moreover, Government's
“You can kill recif by move this year came after pub-
overeating, overdrinking and lication of an authoritative re-
other overindulgences.” he said,
“Prohibition did not work. And

ung
Mr. Celebresze smokes about times more of heart disease
kage of cigarettes a day. than nonamokers.
panel of ten eclentists waa

a
report,
set up by the Public Health were made in this coun’

, Some
Service Oct. 27, after a delay by en, for a Govern:
in choosing the members. in ment education capaign to in-
experts to be acceptable to form citizens, —_ particularly

young people, of the danger of

STAR
Tucson, Arizona
December 3, 19.2

Smoking Left
To Public By
Health Chief

© W6z New York Times News 5°)

WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 —
Even if is found to
be harm y a scientific
committee now reviewing the
evidence, the government
should not tell citizens to give
up cigarettes, according 'o
the secretary of health, educa-
tion and welfare.

Anthony J. Celebrezze, who
took over the job four months
ago, said it was “proper for
the government to get an ex-
pore committee to determine

f it’s true or not” that smok-
ing is a health hazard.

ine findings should then
be laid before the
individuals to decide what
action to take, Celebrezze
said in an interview,

“I firmly believe that it
is not the proper role of the
federal ment to tell

.citizens to stop smoking"
whatever the scientists con-
clude, he sald.
responiitities “inclide the

ea fe

‘Public Health Service and its
National Institutes of Health,
the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration and other mment
health agencies, said he takes
4 “realistic” attitude toward
the subject.

“You can Kill yourself by
overeating, ove spencer and
other o ces, e
said. “Prohibition did not
work. And we don't prevent
the sale of rat poison although
it can kill humans.”

The secretary smokes one
package or less of cigarettes
a dav.