MICRO MARKETING PLAN a

Background - ¢
In today’s environment, traditional mass marketing
approaches with nationally oriented programs are becoming
less and less effective. This could be explained in part by
the fact that today’s smokers are far more fragmented in
terms of lifestyle and product wants. Smokers have become >
increasingly sophisticated and discriminating in their
product choices. In addition, the retail environment is
increasingly fragmented both in terms of types/number of
outlets and the goods/services they provide their shoppers.

The result has been an explosion in the number of brands
offered to smaller and smaller targets creating tremendous
clutter within traditional mass vehicles. Another result is
wasted resources. As traditional mass spending approaches.
are used, significant marketing resources are wasted against
non-prospects in order to reach target smokers with a
substantial level of impact. _

The traditional mass marketing approach may become even less
important to the Company in the future for several reasons.
The potential for advertising restrictions has increased.
Restrictions may vary in form and severity by geography.

This indicates the importance of local advertising/media __
flexibility. Retail marketing restrictions are less likely,
therefore making the point-of-purchase an even more ae Tos
important advertising and promotional opportunity in the OO
future. crn Dae
RJRT has merchandising and overall presence strength to be
leveraged in the retail environment. PM’s efforts to
compromise this position is récognition of the value placed
on the Micro retail marketing potential. The power of
retail chains is growing, especially at the local level.
This suggests the opportunity to adapt/tailor retail
programs to exploit local retail opportunities.

A Micro Marketing approach to our business will provide RJRT
the opportunity to tailor national brand strategies to
specific smoker sub-segments based on lifestyle interests,
geography, and retail opportunities. oe

Retail outlets will be classified on a consumer-driven
basis. Segmentation will occur as outlets are classified on
individual store purchase patterns.

Along with retail segmentation, smokers will be identified
and segmented into homogeneous groups with something
important in common such as ethnicity, key lifestyle
interests, or geographical location. Identifying these

Legs £8Le%