- 26 -

GALLANT: So this is something we'll have to be dealing
with for years to come I suppose.

STAPF: I'm glad she raised the question of alcohol and
food and other legal substances in society because I think it's
very clear that this is precisely the sort of slippery smoke
situation that first amendment experts are concerned about. When
you would start the ultimate attack on the advertising of legal
products which are attacked on health grounds. You have to
remember that tobacco is not alone. There are then people out
there who want to go after automobile advertisements, automobile
ads that tell you this car can hit 140 in eight seconds flat.
There are people who will tell you well that's only encouraging
irresponsible driving and the same to people who tell you the same
sort of things about liquor advertisements. You know this is a
real danger that's present in something like this is erosion in
the first amendment and free speech rights in general.

DUBIN: Trudy I don't think again we're talking about
first amendment rights. We're talking about the difference between
commercial advertising rights and the rights of the free speech of
the individual and there is a difference in the first amendment
and commercial advertising and I think what's happening is we have
an industry here that is not meeting up its responsibility in
terms of truth in advertising, has done nothing but presenting
fraudulent, subliminal types of advertising to individuals towards
an addictive substance. Again the word legal keeps coming up. I
think were tobacco to be discovered today, there's no question it
would be illegal. Okay, so---

GALLANT: Okay.
DUBIN: ---so let's rest that--(MIXED VOICES)

WILLIAM PROBST: My name is William Probst and I'm not
affiliated with any specific organization or club or anything, but
it seems to me that Mr. Stapf's basic argument is that cigarette
advertisements doesn't affect new smokers, you know, starters or
anything like that, and what that tells me, is that the cigarette
companies spends millions of dollars to advertise people to get to
change brands, which I think is a very thin and weak argument,
because you don't have a turnover rate, which means that the
company will be spending a lot of money to have smokers, you know,
change brands and stuff; and you need that turnover rate, you need
that new smoker. So he can, I don't--you know, I think that's a
weak argument to say that, they don't spend the money to try and
get young people to smoke or---

GALLANT: You said only what?-15 percent on getting
people to switch brands?

TIFL 0520203

TMDA 0005772