-12-

Virginia Slims you're going to be thin and sexy young female,
who's going to have it all. Those are the kinds of perceptions
that the Tobacco Industry is trying to sell young people and
they're doing it to people who are very impressionable age and
those are the kinds of things that we have to stop through a ban
on advertising of this nature.

- GALLANT: Okay sir.

GEORGE SEBOLT: Thank you, I guess to just swing the
pendulum a little bit.

GALLANT: You'll have to introduce yourself here.

SEBOLT: George Sebolt. I keep hearing, basically I
am concerned about about children. I keep wondering where the
parents are. I certainly don't know if it's possible to protect
children from salesmen period, but don't children know when they
hear an advertisement or when they see, certainly a salesman is
not going to present their product in an ugly fashion. Where are
the parents with their children if they're watching television?
Are they talking to the children at all? Aren't we--I mean isn't
that something you have to protect your children against always of
products, or is it going to be a super watch dog group to protect
our children always, all their life long against salesmen. Well
of course they're going to present their product in a certain way.
I keep feeling there's a suggestion that this ban is protecting,
is going to protect the children in spite of parents and wouldn't
it be better to spend some of the money and energy in inviting
parents to get back involved with their children about what
they're watching and what it all means, and perhaps relieve the
baby sitter, the TV baby sitter and other advertisements.

GALLANT: Any response?
DUBIN: It think it's a good idea.

STAPF: I think it's a good idea and I think it raises a
point again that basically what the research right now shows us
about teenage smoking and why teenagers in the U.S. start smoking
indicates that if you eliminated every cigarette ad on the face of
the earth, there's no reason to believe that you would have fewer
teenage smokers in the United States. You can look at Norway right
now which has 39 percent of its kids smoking. That's twice the
U.S. level. They have not had cigarette ads in Norway in 10
years.

GALLANT: I saw hands jump up here.

BRENT TRIAS: Hi my name is Brent Trias and I ama

TIFL 0520189

TMDA 0005758