- 22 -

emotional thing as well. There are people who spend more time
with their cigarette than they do with their spouses or anyone
else in their life. It becomes a very emotional kind of topic.
How do we get involved in those kinds of emotion? Through the
kinds of advertising that the tobacco industry is utilizing.
People who smoke know it's damaging for their health but they're
also addicted, addicted to a drug is as addicting as many of the
powerful narcotics that are available today. So we have a
psychological addiction. We have a physiological addiction and we
have an emotional habit. So rationality can count for a lot of
things. I know I should never eat but I do it any way.

MAN III: I'd like to say what rational means. Let me
just quickly. What I meant by rational is very simple, yet the
person sees the risk and makes the decision any way. You are free
to interpret that as being emotional or some how mad. But what if
the person has indeed calculated the risks and undertaken to do
that any way. Now that is simply a person who has made that
decision is going to take his chances. By the way, all smokers
don't smoke three packs a day. I mean you understand and every
smoker isn't an addict. I mean this is where you get kind of
nervous that touching a cigarette is some how going to--but I'm
not trying to underplay the dangers but I'm saying rational means
accept a risk.

DUBIN: Willing to live in the kind of society, willing
to live in the kind of society you're talking about, we wouldn't
have nuclear arms today. So feeling that kind of rational sort of
thought, just doesn't exist.

GALLANT: Should we outlaw sky diving? Should we
outlaw race car driving because those things are dangerous?

DUBIN: Those are the number one preventable cause of
death and disability and let's not compare apples and oranges.
Let's not compare automobile accidents with people getting
addicted to cigarettes and dying. Let's not compare those two
kinds of advertising.

STAPF: Which is what's now happening on the part of
Dr. Dubin. There's no reason to believe that banning the product.
would in any way reduce consumption of cigarettes. Presumably
that's one of the things we're talking about here. It's certainly
something I would assume Dr. Dubin would embrace. I think anyone
who is watching this program, anyone who is in the audience and
listens to anyone seriously make an argument for the prohibition
of civil rights or alcohol, and basically half of one, six
of--half a dozen of one, six of the other. We should know
immediately that that tells you a lot about how credible the
person is when they're making an argument that an advertising ban

TIFL 0520199

TMDA 0005768