-i7-

own poll reflects the common sense wisdom of Americans, two out of
three Americans and that is simply if a product is legal to sell,
it should be legal to advertise it. Obviously you're going to be
opening up a situation here if you allow a ban on cigarette
advertisement, where there'll be bans on alcohol advertisements.
You've got people in the AMA who want to ban fast food ads aimed
at kids even. I mean it goes to incredible extremes. Where do you
stop that once it starts? That's why you have free speech and the
first amendment in this country. It's to prevent exactly this sort
of chipping away of free speech by special interest groups who are
opposed to a particular product or idea.

GALLANT: Are we opening a Pandora's box here. Is this
the beginning of just a lot of problems in a lot of areas? Anybody
have an opinion about that? If you ban cigarette ads are you
going to have ban a lot of other things in the future?-as I'm
taking hands, go ahead.

DUBIN: If the Tobacco Industry did their job and
followed their own individual guidelines initially the government
probably wouldn't have to stand and have that ban in the first
place.

GALLANT: Yes.

ALEX JOHNSON: I'm Alex Johnson, I'm also from the
American Lung Association. A couple of points I think should be
addressed. First of all, the issue of constitutionality has been
touched on. The ban on electronic media advertising was upheld in
the Supreme Court and we're confident that a total ban on
advertising and promotion which is something we really haven't
touched on here but also is a very important factor in marketing
cigarettes. Also intuitively, I don't think that you can spend $2
1/2 billion a year on advertising and not have an effect on
convincing young people to smoke in this country. So it's
something that has to be addressed at the federal level. We think
a ban's a good idea.

GALLANT: So how can you push a ban if Mr. Stapf says
there are 15 countries right now that have bans and it hasn't made
a difference?

JOHNSON: Well let's look at the countries that do have
bans. We're talking about Italy, since '83; Norway, 10 years.
Most of the countries, I believe, are East block countries and
again, we're talking, we don't know how tobacco is promoted there.
It's not just advertising, it's a whole marketing scheme, and this
bill goes beyond just advertising. Let's talk about promotion in
efforts to market a deadly product to our young people.

TIFL 0520194

TMDA 0005763