-~ 16 -

advertising, not cigarette advertising, but I wish advertising was
as influential as people think.

GALLANT: Well thank you.
STEIN: I really do, I'd probably make a lot of money.

GALLANT: Okay, I think we've covered the advertising
issue pretty well. Like I said--

DUBIN: One comment. Let's not under sell advertising
either. In terms of one of the most successful ads in existence,
that of the Marlboro Man and I'm sure whether it's R.J. Reynolds
or who it is that makes Marlboro cigarettes but look at the sale
of that product prior to the development of the Marlboro man in
that commercial afterward. It shot up millions and millions of
dollars, all through the power of advertising. So let's not
undersell your profession. You guys do a terrific job.

GALLANT: Let's talk about the actual bill that's in
Congress right now and what's going to happen with that. What do
you really think are the odds that that's going to pass? Do you
really have that much support right now?

DUBIN: I think that attacking the Tobacco Industry in
this country right now is sort of like attacking apple pie and
motherhood, Why? Because of the economic strength that the
Tobacco Industry has in the South and that it has in Washington.
I think that it's going to have a difficult time passing. I do
think it's going to take awhile, but I do believe that by the year
2000 that dream of the American Medical Association will come
through.

GALLANT: Well as Mr. Stapf mentioned, why not just go
for that right now. Why go through all of the trouble of trying
to stop the advertisement when you know that actually what you
want is to stop cigarettes in general. Why not just go for the
whole thing?

DUBIN: I think it would be real difficult to get the
results if we went for the whole thing right now. That's the
basic why. It's one step further toward banning the use of tobacco
products and eliminating that number one killer in the country.

STAPF: Let me address if I could the question of the
likelihood of the bill passing. I think frankly it'll be a cold
day in hell before Congress embraces the total ban on the
advertising of a legal product. Congress has never done it before
with the exception of alcohol and prohibition in the first part of
the century. It didn't work and the American Lung Association's

TIFL 0520193

TMDA 0005762