-21-

end of the program in just a few moments. Let's go back to our
‘audience and get some more opinions. There's a hand over there,
now and I'm over here. Let's walk around and find out.

MAN III: Yeah, I guess I'm feeling a little concerned
about the issue you raised Trudy about where does this go from
here?

GALLANT: You're the only person to stand up for the
smokers.

MAN III: I guess so, I guess so. But it's not really
a pro cancer stand, I hope, but I thought it was important to get,
if you assume the consumer is somewhat rational, that is, I guess
we're concerned with children, and if we're concerned with
children, then I. think we ought to be concerned with their parents
who should be adults and involved, okay. So in relating to
adults, that you warn them, right and happily the campaign to warn
about the dangers has been very effective. One sees frequently
about the dangers. It's on ads and that would have seemed to be
the end of the campaign and it would have been successful. That
is, people are now clearly aware now of what the dangers are.
What left me uneasy was that now it wasn't a person, well now what
the ban seems to presume is the kind of consumer who not only
needs to be warned and given fair information, he needs to he
protected from even the talk of sales people.

GALLANT: So it's paternalistic.

MAN III: Well, and I guess I'm saying you know, what
kind of person is this? I guess he's somebody who apparently
knows something about rational debate. Otherwise if that weren't
true in this society we wouldn't bother with this program. So he
presumed he knows that a salesman is going to sell a product.
He's heard the message but apparently something goes click when he
sees this ad, despite of what he knows and his own interest and
his own information and he in some sort of trance, goes and
follows what the advertiser says. I guess that image of the
consumer concerns me a little bit because if that were true, the
indeed we would need governmental, you know, strict governmental,
and not just over this product but obviously over any product that
could conceivably be misused.

GALLANT: Dr. Dubin are the consumers that dumb?
DUBIN: No, let's carry the word rational a little bit
worthier because is smoking really a rational behavior, and the

answer is no. Nine out of ten people who smoke cigarettes today
would love to quit smoking. It's not irrational but it's also an

TMDA 0005767