cigarettes you're going to be that young world person running down
the beach. You're going to be that person that's sailing that boat
down in the ocean and there's a definite psychological coalition
between one activity and another. It exists, it's there. It's
real and it’s something that the tobacco industry is utilizing to
sell an addictive product.

GALLANT: Let's talk about the bill that's being
discussed right now in Congress and perhaps Mr. Johnston here can
help me with that.

GREG STEIN: Greg Stein.
GALLANT: I'm sorry, wrong name. Okay.

STEIN: I'm with an ad agency and I guess this would
sound like a strange position for someone from an ad agency to
take, but I guess I wish in a way that advertising was more
influential, as influential as the people here are giving us
credit for. Ignoring cigarettes for a minute, the average ad
score for the next day recall is about 2 or 3 percent. Those
people who look at the ads are those who are interested in
particular products. So if you're in the market for a lawnmower,
you don't notice any of the ads until you want a lawnmower and
then you pay attention to it. Cigarette ad scores are notoriously
among the lowest in the industry which means that basically no one
pays any attention to them because it's not of interest to them.
Somebody said do you honestly believe that they're doing this
advertising aimed at smokers and the answer is yes in a very
capitalistic sense because one point in market shares, is equal to
about $200 million to a cigarette company.

GALLANT: So you really are trying to get people to
switch around and to other brands?

STEIN: Absolutely and why a teenager would choose
to look at a cigarette ad is. beyond me and I guess, I'm not a
smoker so I'm not here defending smoking, but the idea and
everything that's been said against about bans in other countries
is true, but basically the number one influence on somebody and
just what products they use is not just teenagers and not
cigarettes, it's their own experience followed by the experience
of peers or relatives, followed by what they read in the media and
number five or six on a good day is advertising but if less than 1
percent of the people can remember seeing cigarette ads in those
cigarette ads, do use the word cancer I believe and emphysema and
the fetal injury and all of these very devastating terms which I'm
very much in favor of. To say that showing a smiling couple is
going to overcome something at the bottom of the ad that says, by
the way, all of these horrible things will happen to you. I wish

TIFL 0520192
TMDA 000576]