~ 14 -

children in 1889. So it had a ban on smoking especially for
children, here in the states, for almost 100 years. But the
question I did want to ask is I always see young people portrayed
in advertising but I rarely see senior citizens. Can you tell me
why we don't see the senior citizens in your advertising but we
always see young, healthy people?

STAPF: I didn't bring any ads with me but I can show
you ads that involve people who are 40-50 years old. The Marlboro
man for example is a relatively an old individual.

DUBIN: Yes, actually I think the original Marlboro man
has emphysema somewhere in Montana right now.

STAPF: What's your point then? I'm completely lost. I
thought you were asking me about the ages of particular models.

O'GRADY: Because we have--most of the advertising that
we see does center around young, the real healthy people and I
rarely see those with wrinkles, perhaps from premature wrinkling
from adult smoking, but we rarely see those who are 50, 60, 70
years old in advertising. Actually your advertising is aimed at
those who are 20, 25, 30 years old and hopefully---

STAPF: How far would you go in interfering in the
individual choices that people make? You're talking about not
directing advertising to people who are 20 and 25 years old.

O'GRADY: I'm a grandfather. I rarely see grandfathers
portrayed in your advertising.

GALLANT: But let's face it, we don't really see a lot
of grandfathers in a lot of ads, be it cigarettes or anything
else.

STAPF: Are you seriously objecting to advertisements
which contain people 20 and 25 years old, am I correct in
understanding that?

O'GRADY: Advertising with those who are running down
the beach, those who are riding horses--

STAPF: Smokers don't do those things, I assume.

GALLANT: Okay we're going to make our last comment on
advertising and we'll move on.

DUBIN: I think the point is there's a kind of

perception that this type of advertising is making and it's false
perception. It's giving people the perception that if you smoke

TIFL 0520191

TMDA 0005760