- ill1-

not--did not uphold a total ban on the advertising of the legal
product. It simply imposed a restriction on about 15 percent of
the advertising for gambling in Puerto Rico. To try to make the
argument that a partial restriction on advertising is in some way
a blank check for wholesale censorship and that's exactly what's
being proposed here, this doesn't follow at all. That was the
decision upholding a partial restriction as opposed to the sort of
wholesale censorship that the American Lung Association and the
American Medical Association wants to embrace and which this
country has never embraced, which makes sense in a free society.

GALLANT: Okay we have someone else from our audience.

MAN II: I'd just like to address the question of
whether the advertising is deceptive and the images that are
portrayed of the healthful people and clean air and that type of
thing as countered by a small disclaimer about the health effects
the surgeon general is warning on the advertisements, and I think
the overall effect is that cigarettes in advertisments--is that
cigarettes are more healthy than they're harmful, and the overall
impression that most people would be left with. There is some
argument that when they banned television advertising that the
tobacco companies were ready to ban television advertising because
of the equal time ruling and the anti smoking advertisements that
went on side by side. It seemed to have an overall detrimental
effect. There is no equal time now and there is not equal space
on the advertisement.

GALLANT: Thank you, a great big ad and little smail
disclaimer, does it really do any good?

STAPF: If you go back to when warning labels appeared
on cigarette ads and packs, you had a total of a half a trillion
times the people in this society who have seen warning labels
imposed by the Federal Government on every single cigarette pack.
Now think about what the effect of a ban on cigarette advertising
and promotion would be and it would be that you would eliminate
literally millions of impressions that Americans, including
teenagers give every year from the cigarette warning label that
they now see on every single cigarette ad. You take away the
cigarette ads and what you do is you take away the millions of
times that people see those warning labels except for the people
who go into the drugstore and buy the pack of cigarettes and then
look at the warning label. That's when they would see it.

DUBIN: Impressions and perceptions are the key words
because that's what advertising is all about, fulfilling a
perception. The fulfilling of that perception that if you smoke
that Marlboro you're going to be a macho man who's going to be
able to ride across a horse down in Montana. If you smoke

TMDA 0005757

TIFL 0520188