STAPF: If you want to ban the product, it's a whole
different question.

GALLANT: Okay, we'll pick up on that point in just a
moment. We're going to take a quick break and then we're going to
go out and hear from our audience. We'll be right back.

STATION BREAK:

According to the Federal Trade Commission,
cigarettes and tobacco products represent
the single largest category in the nation.
In 1981, $1.5 billion was spent on tobacco
promotion. The next year the figure jumped
to $1.9 billion; and by 1983, the last year
for which statistics are available, $2.6
billion was spent selling tobacco.

GALLANT: We're back live with Both Sides Now. Should
we ban tobacco advertising is our question tonight, and our guests
are Dr. Bruce Dubin and he is a doctor of osteopathic medicine and
a lung disease specialist from the American Lung Association and
also Scott Stapf, an assistant to the president of the Tobacco
Institute.

Now we're going to go out into the audience and get
some opinions.from out here. In addition to talking about should
we ban tobacco advertising, naturally the question is, do tobacco
ads encourage smoking? With me right now is Dr. Len Johnston.
He's from the University of Michigan. I understand you've been
doing some studies in that area. .

DR. LEN JOHNSTON: Yes, in fact the studies are the
very University of Michigan studies to which Mr. Stapf just
referred which show that smoking among young people has dropped
appreciably in the '70's. In fact if you look at where it dropped
and at what age groups, it looks to me like it dropped fairly
quickly after the ban on advertising on radio and television. So
I'd say we have right in our own domestic population, some
perical evidence that advertising does make a substantial
difference.

GALLANT : Your ads certainly do seem to appear to
appeal to the young people.

STAPF: No one who appears in a cigarette ad is under
the age of 25. The scenes that are depicted in the advertisement
are scenes that depict life style situations that we know current
smokers and population are engaged in, whether that's swimming on
the beach which I do, and it's not a crime even though I'm 28
years old to be swimming on a beach or playing volley ball or
engaging in a number of different types of--

TIFL 0520183

-TMDA 0005752