of advertising on smoking behavior. One of the studies I did did
compare smoking behavior in several countries around the world and
they tend to verify what Mr. Stapf had said. Some countries have
had no advertising cigarettes at all at any time. Some have never
banned advertising. In some countries advertising existed for
awhile and then was banned. Comparisons among those countries
indicates that whether the countries had advertising or did not
have advertising, or banned it or did not, simply had no impact,
no perceptible impact, no important impact on the rate of growth
of smoking in those countries.

GALLANT: Dr. Dubin, did the Lung Association findings
find out as well really no effects in other countries?

DUBIN: Well, let's take a look at what he's saying.
No they didn't. There are some findings that do show some
differences but again we're talking about advertising that is
especially geared toward start ups. Let's look at one interesting
statistic and I don't think anyone will dispute it. Well, maybe
some people will but 350,000 deaths per year, and probably the
other million people per year who quit smoking. So we're looking
at about a million and a half people a year who quit smoking. Now
tell me that this industry that is spending $2 or $2 1/2 billion a
year is spending $2 1/2 billion a year to get another million and
a half people started, hooked on an addicting drug and an
addicting habit. That's why those figures can in some instances
stay the same.

STAPF: That's absolutely a nonsense argument. If you
have a new product which people don't know about, advertising has
the effects of introducing people to that product. Cigarettes
have been around in a manufactured form since 1881. There is
absolutely universal awareness in American society and all of the
countries overseas of the existence of cigarettes. No one finds
out from advertising about the existence of cigarettes, and you
can look at study after study after study that's been done about
teen smoking and you will find consistently that those studies
implicate two factors for the starting of teen smoking. Those
factors are peer pressure and whether or not the parents smoke in
the home. If a child comes from a home where the parents smoke,
that child is twice as likely to smoke as is a child from a non
smoking home.

GALLANT: But surely you don't want me to believe that
the Tobacco Industry spends $2 billion a year to get people to
switch brands?

STAPF: No that's not what the advertising is all about.

GALLANT: You get people to actually start smoking?

TIFL 0520185

TMDA 0005754