themselves break their own rules and their own guidelines, and
it's because the Tobacco Industry can't in fact follow its own
rules, that it's necessary for the Federal Government to step in
and place regulations which already exist today in terms of the
use of commercial advertising.

STAPF: I'd like to respond to that if I could. It's
‘probably about the biggest whopper that I've heard in the last
couple of weeks, particularly on the point of the effect of
advertising bans in other counties. The Norwegian, the head of
the Norwegian Council on Science and Health, Smoking and Health
rather, has conceded publicly that he can't point to any decline
in cigarette smoking as a result of the advertising ban.

Notice that he's talking about one out of 15 countries
where this has been tried. He can't even make a firm case for
1/15th of the total amount of the experimentation that's been
tried.

GALLANT: But America might be different, perhaps, I
mean, I know when I see cigarette ads, most of the people look
happy and they look healthy and they usually look pretty young.

STAPF: Absolutely, America is different. We've got
roughly $2 billion in cigarette advertising and promotion going on
in this country. In the last five years there's been a 5 percent
decline overall in cigarette smoking. Now it would seem to me
that if the American Medical Association is right and cigarette
advertising turns people into zombies, who automatically start
smoking, we should have seen an increase rather than a decrease in
consumption.

GALLANT: Since we have taken away television ads,
hasn't consumption gone down?

STAPF: Cigarette consumption in the United States rose
in 1972, 1973 and 1974.

GALLANT: You're saying more people are smoking now?

STAPF: It did not go down in the wake of the ban on
radio and TV ads. In fact one of the points that's being obscured
here by Dr. Dubin, which I think is very important is the question
of teen smoking in the United States. We know from federal
research, in fact, research done by the University of Michigan,
that the rate of daily smoking in the United States by teenagers
has declined over the last 10 years from a level of 29 percent to
20 percent. It doesn't sound like a lot until you figure that
means a 32 percent decline in teenage smoking.

TIFL 05201381

TMDA 0005750