with total and partial bans on cigarette advertising and
promotion, it hasn't worked in any of those countries to reduce
cigarette smoking. In fact, 14 of the countries saw increases in
smoking. One country saw a 1 percent decline over a 10 year

period and the government says that it wasn't as a result of the
advertising ban.

GALLANT: But now television ads have been banned for 15
years now. Wasn't this inevitable? Wouldn't we just go that one
step further and ban all advertising?

STAPF: Oh no. We're in a television studio right now
and I think most people realize that radio and TV are heavily

regulated by the Federal Government. There is a Federal
Communications Commission which licenses and dictates control of
content for programs on radio and TV. There's no federal

newspaper commission and that's one of the serious problems here,
is that the accepted principle in American society is that if it's
legal to produce a product, it's legal to advertise it. I think
probably what Dr. Dubin would like to see is a ban on the product.
It seems to me that's what his arguments would be in support of.
In fact, one of the basic questions that most people want to ask
when they hear about this proposal is, why aren't they talking
about a ban on the product? Why are they going after the
advertising? Because the evidence is just not there to support
the argument based on any of the international experience. That a
ban on advertising will reduce consumption. He wants to tell you
that it causes teenage smoking. Go to Norway, which has had a
total ban on cigarette advertising for 10 years. The level of
daily smoking by teenagers in Norway is at a level of 39 percent.
That's roughly twice the U.S. level of 20 percent.

GALLANT: Okay let's talk about what is happening in
some of those other countries.

DUBIN: We can play the statistic games all we want.
If we want to use Norway for an example, we can go to the
statistic quota by the chief health officer of Norway who felt
that there has been a 25 percent decrease in the onset and
starting of smoking among teenagers in the Norwegian population
because of the total ban of cigarette smoking. In terms of issues
of speech and freedom of speech. I think the Supreme Court and
the Constitution clearly delineate that there are differences
between commercial use of free speech and individual use of free
speech and that industries have certain-- they have certain
rights, but they also have certain things that they must fulfill
in a free society. One of these is truth in advertising. The
Tobacco Industry has set up on its own a nine point schedule of
things they want to follow in terms of proper advertising. They

TMDA 0005749