GALLANT: But do you deny that smoking has health
hazards?

STAPF: I don't think health hazards really have
anything to do with the advertising debate because they're not
proposing a ban on the product. They're proposing a ban on the
advertising and they can't show you that a ban on the advertising
would cause one person to stop smoking or prevent one person from
starting to smoke. As such, if they have concerns on health
grounds, they're not doing anything at all to remedy it.

GALLANT: Is the ban on the advertising part of a
bigger picture. I'm sure that down the line you do want a smoke
free society.

DUBIN: Oh absolutely. I want to eliminate the number
one cause of death and disability in our country. But let's look
at some of the statistics that the gentleman is quoting and let's
bear in mind one thing that Mark Twain once said. There are three
types of lies, lies, damn lies, and statistics. We can sit here
and quote study after study after study and we can call something
black and something blue, but let's get down to the plain common
sense. Now he's quoting statistics about people who are, people
who have either stopped smoking or no longer continuing smoking.
- One of the main things the American Medical Association, and other

-people want to do in terms of putting this ban on tobacco
advertising is to decrease the starting in smoking. Looking at
those kinds of statistics is a prospective kind of study. It's
not just Norway. It's Sweden, it's other countries in terms of
whether there are bans. If you want to look at those statistics,
they exist as well. The statistics are there. The facts are
there but the point is, let's forget statistics. Let's get down
to common sense and common sense is what we're all about and
common sense tells us that if you have a product, if that product
paints an image, if young people want to live up to that image,
they're going to use that product. Fads have been started across
the country and across the world because of advertising and
cigarettes and tobacco are no different especially in the
techniques that the tobacco industry utilizes, specifically in
gearing itself toward young people to start smoking.

STAPF: Trudy, we've been doing the findings of the
American Lung Association on polls that show that if you want to
talk about the common sense of the American people, two out of
three Americans according to the polls conducted by the American
Lung Association and confirmed by the Roper Organization, and
other groups will tell you that if a product is legal to be sold
in the United States, if it's legal to manufacturer, it should be
legal to advertise it.

GALLANT: Let's hold on that point right there.

TIFL 0520182

TMDA 000575]