- 24 -

DUBIN: The case for censorship, just point blankly is
according to constitutional law, our government has a vested
interested in its product and it's costing us $4.2 billion a year
in health care alone. Our government through constitutional law
has the right to restrict the sale of that particular product

because of that vested interest. It already exists and it's
there.

STAPF: That's absolutely incorrect. The American Civil
Liberty's union, most other prominent persons and experts working
in this country will tell you flatly, just as flatly as Dr. Dubin
is telling you that as long as the product is legal it should be
legal to advertise. If you want to try to ban the product, that's
a whole different debate and we didn't get into that. That's a
great debate and I'd be glad to get into that. We know that it's
not going to work. Anybody that knows anything about prohibition
knows it won't work. So it doesn't do any good to talk about
banning, it doesn't good to talk so extensively about the product,
if you're proposing to do something about something entirely
removed from the product, and that is the advertising. That's
what's being proposed here.

GALLANT: Let's go back to the audience.

REBECCA LISENBERGER: Hi, I'm Rebecca Lisenberger, and
I've been a health care professional for about 15 years and for
some reason I find it very difficult that people don't take
responsibility for their health and it's been something that I've
noticed all along in all of my years. With nicotine being an
addicting drug much like, as an example, compared to heroine, I'd
like to ask Mr. Stapf, in your advertisements, then why don't you
tell us about the side effects of smoking and bad effects of
smoking? Why is always ‘dare to be more.'

STAPF: Every cigarette ad, every cigarette pack
contains the surgeon general's warning label which provides--there
are four rotating labels which address pregnant women, address
specific health issues, which address the presence of carbon
monoxide. All of those issues are discussed in detail in the
warning labels that appear on every single cigarette ad and pack.
In fact, you can talk about it in detail. There are four rotating
labels. Well one of the reasons Gloria Steinem from Ms. Magazine
accepts cigarette advertisements is that if you didn't contain the
warning labels, I might have some serious problems with them but
they contain the warning labels, thus providing information to
consumers. That's providing the government's official view on
smoking and health. That information is getting out to consumers.

DUBIN: I wonder how much money the Tobacco Industry
gives Ms. Magazine for their advertisements.

TIFL 0520201

TMDA 0005770