- 19 -

ALBERT ZAK: My name is Albert Zak. I'm a retired school
administrator and a volunteer for the American Cancer Society. It
seems to me that the primary victim of the advertising campaign is
adolescent use and studies show that 60 percent of people who
smoke started when they were 13 and 14 years of age. Now when
people see, kids in high school and junior high school, just don't
have the judgement and the discernment to make informed decisions
about the decision to smoke. They don't understand the addictive
nature of tobacco and they have unrealistic understandings of how
they can--whether they can withdraw from it or not and basically
it. seems to me that kids don't have the right to vote and they
don't belong to PAC's and that the government does have a
substantial and abiding interest in protecting the rights of
youths. When they see a Marlboro ad the image is that if you smoke
you become a man, and this is a very compelling motivation for
emerging youth and the same way with girls and emancipation of
liberation.

DUBIN: Now there are promotional aspects of the tobacco
industry geared specifically toward youth. One is the promotional
aspect of rock concerts and other concerts. The Kool Jazz
Festival, things that youth would be involved in and the
association of tobacco with that seemingly in the minds of a young
person makes it a socially and safe and acceptable form of
behavior and habit to involved to. That's just another form of
commercialism and advertising that the tobacco industry is
utilizing to help start a youngster on an addictive habit.

GALLANT: But would make a difference with no ads?
You're still going to have a cigarette?

DUBIN: We may not have as many starts, and if we have
fewer starts, we'll have fewer, we'll have fewer deaths.

STAPF: There's absolutely not a reason in the world
and I mean literally in the world, to believe that that's the
case. The evidence is very clear from the 15 countries of
advertising bans. Again, I just simply point to Norway, which
remember that is one out of the 15 countries he wants to talk
about as being---

DUBIN: We can include Sweden if you'd like.

STAPF: Sweden is the same thing. You have what,
roughly twice the level of teenage smoking that you do in the
United States without cigarette advertisement. It seems to me
that people who are proposing censorship and that's exactly what
we're talking about her have an obligation to make the case for
what they're supposing. We've never gone this far in a free
society as far as an attack on free speech is concerned. They've
got to come up with a compelling case. If they can come up with

TIFL 0520196
TMDA 0005765