- 25 -

STAPF: We don't have to talk about Ms.Magazine. You
can talk about Reader's Digest which has not accepted cigarette
advertisements since the 1930's. Readers Digest publishes some of
the most voluminous anti smoking accounts that exist. They're
opposed to the advertising ban proposal because they're not
willing to throw out the first amendment with the bath water and
that's exactly what's being proposed here,

GALLANT: Okay let's here from our audience once more.

KAREN KEELER; My name is Karen Keeler and I'm with
Health Improvement Network. I'm a professional hypnotherapist and
I really feel I have some understanding of the subliminal messages
that are provided by advertising and I think I really want to laud
the Tobacco Industry because if I were to select any advertising
technique that I think is excellent and very effective, I think
that 95 percent of smokers in this country has voiced their
concern that they would like to quit. Many of the people with
lung cancer and emphysema are dying to quit and the advertising
techniques. that are used create a double bind for people in our
country. I don't consider that smokers should even be allowed, I
wouldn't want to take away their constitutional rights, but I feel
very protective about the capacity to choose not to smoke in terms
of the advertising that is presented because they are drug addicts
in a sense. In the same way I wouldn't want alcoholics to decide
if there should be alcohol use or not in certain situations.

GALLANT: But drugs are not advertised, but yet you
still have drug addicts. So even though you take away the
advertising, you'll still have people that will smoke.

KEELER: Right, but what we're talking about is also an
addicted society where we're addicted to drugs, alcohol, food,
smoking and all kinds of other substances and I believe that we
have to as a society make a stands and I do agree that it's very
difficult to intervene with advertising of this substance. Okay
it's going to be difficult to get to Congress, but I'm very
concerned that we as a society have to take a look at this problem
and we have to find a way around it. The Tobacco Industry needs
to be directed toward some other productive activity in my opinion
and the farmers in the Southern part of the country need to be
paid attention to because they're going to have to be retrained
maybe to computers or some other kind of programming in order for
this economically to work. And it's a big problem, the kind of
problem that needs to be directed, in a larger way, the
advertising is not the only answer I feel. It is really taking a
look at ourselves as and addicted society and taking a strong
stand for ourselves and our children.

TIFL 0520202

TMDA 0005771