- 20 -

something about maybe part of one country, but that's not a case.

DUBIN: Excuse me sir, but I don't think we're talking
about censorship. What we're talking about is proper presentation
of a product. If you want to present your product, yeah, present
your cigarette but present that gentleman with emphysema or that
patient dying with lung cancer there at the same time. Don't show
that young man running down the beach looking like a movie star.
Let's show the reality behind cigarettes. Let's show some of the
pain and suffering that are associated with tobacco use and
tobacco products.

STAPF: Anybody who listens to this line of reasoning
can see exactly where it will go and that is it will slop over
into over products that attacked on health grounds. What would
satisfy Dr. Dubin? Would we have to show an automobile accident,
people wrapped around trees in car ads? How far would this logic
go? It's very clear already that the people who are attacking
cigarette ads are already gearing up for attacks on liquor ads.
The American Medical Association for example, says that within two
years it will embrace a total ban on alcohol advertising. You
have the people who want to prevent the fast food ads going
to kids. You have the people who want to prevent breakfast
cereals from being advertised to kids. The problem is this is a
free society whether the American Lung Association likes it or
not.

GALLANT: Okay hold that thought right there.

STAPF: It's legal to advertise legal products.

GALLANT: We're going to take a break on that point and
come back in a moment and talk about the big picture of whether or
not we should ban cigarettes altogether. We'll be right back.

STATION BREAK: Don't just sit there, be a part of our
studio audience. To make reservations. Write Both Sides
Now. 7441 Second Boulevard, Detroit Michigan 48202 or
call us here at Channel 56, 873-7200.

GALLANT: We're back now live in the studios with Both
Sides Now and our question this evening should we ban tobacco
advertising? We have Dr. Bruce Dubin from the American Lung
Association and Scott Stapf from the Tobacco Institute and we feel
as we have the American Lung Association and the Cancer Society
very well represented. Let's hear from some more smokers in the
audience. I know that we try to have both sides in the audience
so I'd like to hear from them as well and we also want to hear
from you at home. Make sure that you call in on our phone poll.
The number is 872-4040. Do you feel that tobacco advertising
should be banned? We'll give you the results of the poll at the

TIFL 0520197

TMDA 0005766