GALLANT: ---if you smoke cigarettes that it's healthy
and you have fun and you run around when more than likely if you
smoke a lot you can't breathe that well.

STAPF: The Federal Trade Commission expressly forbids
any sort of health related claims to be made in cigarette
advertisements and I think one of the things that your guest has
ignored here, Dr. Dubin, is that the Federal Trade Commission, a
federal agency is fully empowered under federal law to strike down
absolutely any advertisement which is felt to be false or
misleading. So if there's a problem with any of those ads, the
Federal Trade Commission is fully empowered right now to strike
those ads down.

DUBIN: Trudy, in response---

GALLANT: You were talking and I don't know if you had
a chance to see we had some of those types of photographs on the
screen.

DUBIN: In response to that particular comment, the
Federal Trade Commission itself in its own 1981-1982 reports has
specifically come out and stated that the Tobacco Industry in its
advertising format has misled and falsified the information in
terms of the types of presentation that it's presented to the
public.

STAPF: Let me follow up on that if I could. It's an
important point. He's talking about 1981 and '82 reports. If he
would tell you in the entirety what those reports said, they
recommended instituting a system of four rotating labels on
cigarette advertisements and cigarette packs. The FTC did not
look at those findings and endorse a ban on cigarette advertising
and promotion. And what do we have right now? As of October of
last year, we have four rotating labels on all cigarette ads and
packs. That's exactly what the Federal Trade Commission asked for.

DUBIN: I believe on those warnings they specifically
wanted at one point in time, the words, death and cancer. However
those were deleted because of heavy lobbying and heavy
participation from the Tobacco Industry itself.

STAPF: That's not correct. The Federal Trade
Commission didn't call for that.

GALLANT: We also have James. Hamilton. He's an
economics professor and you have done some studies as well.

JAMES HAMILTON: Yes, I did a few years ago, I did af
study, a couple of studies actually, trying to gauge the effects

TIFL 0520184

TMDA 0005753