HAMILTON: The advertising has the effect of beyond
brand switching, which involves about 10 percent of smokers, about
5.5 million people. It also involves getting people to stick with
the brand they're smoking now. So you're talking about the
advertising reaching out to about one out of three Americans who
currently are smokers, 55 million people,

GALLANT: Where did a lot of people get the idea that
it was cool? Where did the peer pressure come from? Tt's
advertisements.

STAPF: The studies show consistently that peer pressure
when we're talking about school yard stuff and I think anybody who
is a parent can understand what peer pressure is when you're
talking about teenagers. And also the question of whether or not
parents smoke in the home are very important. But the studies
don't show that kids see a cigarette ad and then run down to the
corner drugstore and buy an armload of cigarettes.

GALLANT: I saw a hand go up right here.

MAN: Yes, you say that the majority, the major cause
of cigarette smoking by young people is peer pressure and of
course you would go to even tell us that the people that you're
advertising, a man that is running along the beach in totally
physical strength as the one who's well built and everything like
that, he's in perfect health, and cigarette smoking of course has
helped to build his stamina and has helped to make him one of the
healthiest young men in the country, and that of course has no
effects on young people and young minds that are impressionable.

STAPF: Well, you can stop putting words in my mouth
whenever you'd like. I didn't suggest a third of what you said.
What I said specifically is that the research shows consistently
' that peer pressure and whether or not parents smoke in the home
are the two most important factors responsible for teenage
smoking. Now if you want to tell me that it's only the tobacco
industry saying that, I'm going to have to point out that you can
go to America's top doctor, who's Dr. Otis Bowens(?) who's the
head of Health and Human Services in this country. Dr.-surgeon
General Coupes boss as a matter of fact who will tell you that one
of the reasons he does not support the advertising ban is because
the proof is not out there to show, that cigarette ads cause teen
smoking. The notes in the study surprised me.

GALLANT: But if a picture paints 1,000 words, doesn't
it, even if you don't have the words implying that smoking is
healthy. Certainly as this young man has described the picture of
the man running down the beach and things like that. It gives you
the impression that these are people that smoke and they have fun
and they can breathe.

TIFL 0520186

TMDA 00035755