- 23 -

works. If they're going to try and convince you for a moment that
banning the product or anybody who knows anything about
prohibition knows that that's doomed to failure. We should
consider that, weight that very heavily in your mind when they
tell you that a ban on the advertising will work. The same,
absolutely. the same sort of flawed prohibition as logic.

DR. JOHN SEAWAY: i'm John Seaway. I'm a theoretic
surgeon and a vascular surgeon here in Detroit and unfortunately I
get the results of that patient that is 60 years or old or 55
years old, that had smoke: cigarettes for 10 to 20 years and they
come into my office with cancer or a vascular physical disease
that would necessitate an amputation or some reconstructive
surgery and maybe a resection of their lung if they're lucky and
that's why I for one am in favor of banning cigarette
advertisement. As you said before, everybody that smokes
cigarettes don't smoke cigarettes, don't smoke a pack of
cigarettes a day, but if you flip in through a magazine and you
see a cigarette, there you may light up a cigarette and many times
we do have behavior modification as part of our life is, modifying
our behavior according to our environment. You pick a cigarette
up and you start smoking. That patient that smokes a pack of
cigarettes a day for 20 years is going to probably have a cancer.
You can give me the argument that well everybody doesn't get
cancer but I'll tell you that of the patients that I evaluate for
cancer, 90 percent of them have smoked. That's not only lung
cancer, that's esophogial cancer, oral cancer, and that's a
conclusive. disease. So I see the results and the results are
devastating.

STAPF: I'd like to respond to that if I could and I
don't mean to contest at all with the what the doctor is saying.
The only point I want to make is that this is sort of the classic
distillation of the argument that's being advanced by the medical
community now for a ban on the advertising. The problem is you
can listen to everything he said and those are arguments that
some people would find very compelling for a ban on the product.
Those are not arguments for a ban on the advertising. You really
have to, if you're going to propose censorship, you have to tell
us why we shouldn't' have the speech. If you can't show us that
censorship has worked in any other country and you can't, that's
not an argument. If you can't show us that it's going to reduce
teenage smoking in the United States, you're not telling us
anything. You can talk about the product until you're blue in the
face but if you can't tell us something about the advertisement,
you don't make the case for censorship and that's what hasn't been
accomplished here. Trudy?

GALLANT: The goal is--

TIFL 0520200

TMDA 0005769