- 13 ~-

lawyer that practices--a great deal of my practice is in civil
rights litigation, constitutional law, and when I came to the
program tonight I was not going to stand up and make a big
statement about banning any kind of advertising because initially
there is some fear that one has about getting involved in banning.
You have to do it carefully but listening to the representative
from the tobacco industry, I can't help now but say, come on,
you're now taking the position out of nowhere that now these ads
have no impact on causing people to want to smoke cigarettes.
You're ignoring the fact that these ads do portray it as a
wonderful thing and if it's not at least wonderful then it
portrays it as not as harmful as I think. there's a lot of
evidence that it is, and then if you want to trade, I'll do a
trade with you. I'll propose that we do this. You put the ban.
You put the warning in as large an ad as you put the glorified
picture and maybe we can strike a deal, but don't tell me that
what we're doing is we're getting an advantage here because of the
small warning and that huge beautiful,you know, the beautiful
people doing wonderful things while they smoke cigarettes.

GALLANT: Hold that point, we're going to find
out--(applause) We want to find out how the audience feels at
home. We're going to take a short break and then we'll come right
back and let Mr. Staff respond so we'll be back in just a moment.

STATION BREAK:

Should we ban all tobacco advertisements?
What do you think? To vote on tonight's
question, call 872-4040. Tell the
operator yes or no, and please be brief.
The results of tonight's poll will be
announced at the end of the program.

GALLANT: We're back live with Both Sides Now. I'm
Trudy Gallant, and our question tonight should we ban tobacco
advertising? Our guests this evening, Dr. Bruce Dubin from the
American Lung Association and Scott Stapf from the Tobacco
Institute of Washington, D.C. On this segment we'd like to talk a
little bit more about the issue of commercial speech. We
mentioned that earlier and someone did mention that there is a
difference between commercial speech and individual free speech,
So let's touch on that issue and I believe I saw a hand that came
up a few minutes ago.

JERRY O'GRADY: Yes, I'm Jerry O'Grady, People Against
Tobacco Smoke. Actually my comment was in two different
categories. One was regarding children. The comment was that
advertising first came out in the late 1880's, and it's
interesting that Michigan was one of the very first states in the
union to respond that smoking was prohibited for and regarding

TIFL 0520190

TMDA 0005759