-~ 18-

GALLANT: Is America different?

STAPF: Why don't we talk about the facts, which you
know, one of the first things your guest here said is, let's
ignore statistics. Let's ignore all of these studies and there's
a good reason why he wants to ignore them. That's because they
don't come anywhere near close to supporting the position. There
are six major academic studies that have been done on the effect
of advertising bans in other countries. Not one of those studies
supports the argument that a ban on cigarette advertising and
promotion in the United States would have the effect of reducing
cigarette consumption. All I want to point out here is there's a
good reason why they're telling, ignore the studies. Ignore the
foreign experience. Ignore the statistics and that's simply
because it doesn't support their case that an ad ban would work in
the United States.

GALLANT: Okay sir.

DALE WALKER: I'm Dale Walker. On constitutional
questions affecting life and death, our society generally comes
down the side of life with the notable exception of tobacco. For
instance if I were a parent, practicing religion that prohibits
blood transfusions and my child needed a blood transfusion to
survive, the courts would order that blood transfusion
notwithstanding my constitutional protected religion. Take the
airport searches. That goes against the constitution's protection
against on the warrant dué to searches. But we are considering
life there, and I think it's time we consider the lives of these
350,000 people who die and as beautiful as our constitution is, if
you're not living, you don't appreciate that beauty.

GALLANT: But now everybody doesn't die from smoking
cigarettes. True, a lot of people do, but not everyone.

WALKER: That's why we have 200 million people in this
country and only to borrow your implied phrase, 350,000 a year
die. If we can reduce that to 340,000 we have made tremendous
strides and this bill will get us started in that direction.

STAPF: Tobacco is not a unique case there. That
simply is not accurate. In fact one of the cases recently where an
ad ban was thrown out as unconstitutional was in Oklahoma where
the ad ban was thrown out on liquor advertising in part because
liquor consumption in the first 14 years under the ban went up by
80 percent as opposed to going down, which simply again, is
confirmation that advertising bans with universally aware products
simple doesn't do the job.

GALLANT: Okay.

TIFL 0520195

TMDA 0005764