p.

preventable, cause of death and disability in the United States.
If we can prevent cigarette smoking, we can eradicate that number
one cause or over 350,000 deaths a year. We can prevent our
government from spending over $4.2 billion a year annually,
directly through Medicare and Medicaid costs towards the adverse
effects of the Tobacco Industry. If we can prevent cigarette
advertising, especially, we can prevent our young people in
America and throughout the world from taking up a habit that is
nothing but deadly. Cigarettes are the only product known
throughout the world where if it's taken like directed, it causes
death.

GALLANT: But this is just banning advertisement,
that's what you're working on right now?

DUBIN: Essentially if we can ban advertising and if we
can stop advertising, we can stop the tobacco industry from
falsifying information to the youth, from increasing certain
populations who have shown an increase in tobacco smoking, mainly,
certainly minority groups, women and especially young people,
people in the ages of 10 through 18 years of age.

GALLANT: Mr. Stapf, are we really talking about a
health issue here or is this more of a legal issue?

SCOTT STAPF: It's more of a legal issue because you'll
notice that what the American Medical Association has proposed is
not a ban on the product. They've proposed a ban on the
advertising and the arguments that you just heard, I think, some
people would consider to be a brief for the prosecution for a ban
on the product. It didn't tell you anything about the advertising
and that's really what we're talking about here. It's very clear
from virtually every first amendment free speech expert in this
country that what the AMA proposes and what the American Lung
Association has endorsed, would represent a very serious threat to
free speech in this country. The basic principle that two out of
three Americans accept, according to polls conducted by the
American Lung Association, is that if a product is legal to be
manufactured, to be distributed, to be sold, to be consumed, it
only makes sense that it would be legal to advertise the product.

We know from the experiment with prohibition in the
first part of this century that you can do a lot of things to try
and stop a legal product. You can ban its manufacturing. You can
prevent it from being sold, from being distributed, from being
consumed, and from being advertised, and it still won't work. It
doesn't stand to reason that just going after the advertising of
cigarettes, would cause any kind of decline in cigarette
consumption. In fact, in the 15 countries that have experimented

TYEL 0520179

TMDA 0005748