-10-

STAPF: Number one, it's a legal product, so the
advertisement is perfectly acceptable. The second point that I'd
make is there's nothing false or misleading in those
advertisements according to the Federal Trade Commission. They
have not taken the action to strike down those ads.

GALLANT: How do you ban, Dr. Dubin, something that is
legal?

DUBIN: Well first of all, let's make a couple of
distinctions. First of all it already can be banned, probably
under constitutional law and that's the reason, because we're
talking about commercial free speech. Now again there is a
difference between that and individual freedom of speech and if
our government has a vested interest in an advertisement it can
make restrictions on that form of advertising. What kind of
vested interest do we have? We have a $4.2 billion vested
interest in terms of treating those people who are sick and
debilitated as a direct result of tobacco. I calli $4.2 billion
pretty vested in a role for the government to step in right now.

STAPF: That's something that really needs to be
responded to, if I could. I think that anyone who goes to the
American Lung Association for legal advice, deserves the advice
and the consequences that they get as a result of making that
decision. If you go to the people who are the experts about
constitutional war and free speech in this country, particularly
the American Civil Liberties Union, they will tell you that the
proposal to ban cigarette advertising and promotion is
unconstitutional. It's a major threat to free speech and beyond
that you're opening up a serious slippery smoke possibility here
and that is a tax on other products that are legal in this country
and have been attacked on health grounds, particularly liquor
advertising which the American Medical Association is already
going after.

GALLANT: Well Mr. Stapf, there was a recent Supreme
Court ruling out of Puerto Rico that dealt with something that was
legal, but yet it did not allow advertisement of that. Isn't that
setting a precedent? ;

STAPF: You've got apples and oranges---

GALLANT: Perhaps the Supreme Court would uphold this
as well? This is also something that's legal. They ought to ban
the advertising.

STAPF: You've got apples and oranges there, because
the facades decision on do you want to refer to it correctly was

TIFL 0520187

TMDA 0005756