~ 27 -

STAPF: Actually my main arguments are that there is a
serious first amendment speech problem here, and that ad bans have
not worked in other countries. Those were my two main arguments
actually, but in terms of what he's discussing specifically, the
question of the effect of cigarette advertising, I did not say
that cigarette advertising only has an effect on brand switching.
If that were the case, that means that $2 billion would be spent
on 10 percent of all smokers.

GALLANT: Yeah.

STAPF: Which obviously doesn't make any sense at all,
and that's not what I said.

GALLANT: Well, we heard---

STAPF: What I said is that the advertising is aimed at
one out of every three American adults, that is 53 to 55 million
Americans who smoke. There are comparably large advertising
budgets which are aimed at much smaller groups of individuals than
55 million people.

GALLANT: Okay, we've heard from our audience as well,
our viewing audience at home, and their responses, should we ban
tobacco advertising?-was yes, 233 and no, 110.

(APPLAUSE)

GALLANT: Naturally that's a very unscientific poll, but
that's just the poll of the people watching the program tonight
and decided to call, but we appreciate hearing from them; and
we're going to go back and get some more responses from people in
the audience here. I saw a couple of other hands going up.

Do you have a comment Sir.

WILLIAM ANDERSON: Well, certainly I think we in the
medical professions.

GALLANT: And you are?

ANDERSON: I am William Anderson. I'm an osteopathic
physician and I'm a trustee of the American Osteopathic
Association. And I do believe we have a responsibility that
certainly transcends, the consideration in this instance, the
right of free speech. Not that we should deprive anyone of that
right, of free speech, but where that right infringes upon the
rights of others, especially the youth and those who are exposed
by secondary smoking, I think we have a obligation to speak out.

TIFL 0520204

TMDA 0005773