BALTIMORE SUN
Baltimore, Maryland

Nonsmoking Cliest Surgeon

Labels Report ‘Nonsense’

 

_-A Baltimore chest’ surgeon wlio
has never smoked yesterday

called the. United States Surgeon!:is a surgeon on the Johns Hopkins
General’s report on smoking !' Medical Schoo! faculty,
“nonsense,” while his son, a.

Baltimore chesti surgeon who does
smoke, quietly continued a long-
fange attempt to drop the habit.

“It's a report that really has
gontributed nothing but juggling

statistics,” Dr. William F. Rien- that

hoff, Jr.,.said of the 150,000-word
report issued Saturday.

Dr. Rienhoff is professor emeri-
tus of the Johns Hopkins Medical
jSchool surgical faculty and a
{member of the scientific advisory
[board of the Tobacco Research
Institute,

“They have statistical evidence,
and I’m inclined to think there
bas to be something to it,’ his

|

| son, Dr. William F. Reinhoff a| Pressman Bans

said. The younger Dr. Rienhoff

 

Office Smoking
ee

Confirmed: smokers among. the
too vehement,” he said, “butithere|345. employees. of the city comp-
is certainly enough evidence to|troller’s office are in tor a rude
Suggest some connection between|shock. when they report for work
cigarettes and cancer.” today. their ashtr A
“We Have not the slightest proof}; Gone are eir asntrays. In their
t tobacco itself roi carci: ead hang polite but. firm no-

noma,’” his father said. “The re. 6 signs,

Port is based on nothing but coin-| Comptroller Hyman A, _Press-
cidence. and suspicion, mah, a nonsmoker, took unilateral
as Surprised the Surgeon Gen-

eral bas put-his name to. it.”
Thinkin ‘ € Of Quitting . ffeserted-for-Sunday offices of City:
“a pack ee ee than d “I have directed that smoking
“day” while i will no longer be permitted in the
en ar day woe in _ college, offices dr other work areas of the
day now. and “I would ie Py divisions of the department’ of the
ps, quit it.” comptroller,” Mr, Pressman said.
oa 1 haven't tried as} The Federal report should come
hard as I should,” he said.  |¢9 the abrupt attention of every.

Other reaction to the reportfone. I can't make a one-man
which said cigarette smoking. is| Prohibition, but I can make rules
“causally related” to lung cancer| &% Comptrolier,” he said,
was simple:

Smokers kept smoking,.and non- makes in stop and think, but
smokers felt moral. “Henry a Miller, of the frst
Raymond State ge atolman block Cold ‘Spring lane, who will

mor , "Ylbe 60 on his next birthday, said
their cigarettes, and dragged out

; ristmag}%¢ had quit a few years ago, but
{he ‘pee they got for Ch . {a8 back on cigars to relieve ‘his
iT haven't smoked a cigarette rhe doctor said it would be a
all day.’ Patrolman Staniewski good idea tf i smoked a couple

said, biting down on one almost: > day,” he. said.

“The report.is perhaps a little

 

  
   
   
 
 
  
 

. hew briar, and producing another Dr. Robert E: Farber, city
k

from his pocket. health commissioner, compli.
One Oniy Half Convinced mented the report for “calling a
One of his superiors, Lt, John spade a spade."
Fauthe, was only half convinced,|! “We're not: going to solve this
however. overnight,” Dr. Farber said, “Our
“This report was suffcient to/emphasis should be on the younger
convince me I should cut down|generation. We should try to keap
' them from starting.” -
Dock peck, % day to: half [them from st king.
pack,” he said, lighting up one of . e gave up smo! ing wl
his dail : uly but said he still has ct AVIS.
ly ration of ten. ‘
° : Both Dr. Farber and Dr. George
A city fireman showed even less]; Brain, city school superin-
regard for the report tendent. expected no ban on smok-
T stopped smoking at noon yes- ing in the city schoois, but fore-
terday,” he said. “And I started Saw a stepped-up propaganda cam.
again at 6 P.M. That report! paign against the habit. vee

S202

DP98ZO