" _ --" B, Audience Performance - With the rising popularity of "rap" music, the
{ ’ "Smooth Moves" stay right in step by performing the most recent rap hits (i.e.
"Wild Thing”). Since the key to this music style is the memorization of the
"spoken rhythmic lyrics", the "Smooth Moves" once again incorporate
audience participation into the program by bringing "rappers" onto the stage
(they are allowed to use cheat sheets) to join in the performance - another
crowd pleasing selection.

3, Resort/Nightclub Promotional Activity

A. "Smooth Moves" Photoboard - A free standing photoboard of Hollywood
Joe and the "Smooth Moves" will be utilized in each nightclub.
Attendees/Consumers will have the opportunity to have their photo taken
(at no charge) with either Joe or the "Smooth Moves". The photo is inserted
into a custom CAMEL photo folder.

B. Find Your Smooth Character - Upon entering the club, each male and
female consumer will be given the appropriate "Smooth Moves" Card. If the
consumers can find one or more matching tips on the opposite sex's card,

they may visit the prize center and receive an appropriate customized
CAMEL prize.

C. Smooth Car Sweepstakes - Since the 1989 Nissan 300ZX was not awarded
during the Daytona Spring Resort Program, the sweepstakes will be activated
during the Summer Program with minor rule and procedure modifications.
During the 14 week program, consumers (smokers only) will be given a four
color specially designed flyer/entry form, which they must return to the entry
box location at each of the clubs. At the conclusion of the Summer Program

"a random drawing will be conducted in order to award the car, 10 beach kits,
and 200 CAMEL tee shirts - 211 lucky winners.

D. Sampling - Consumers (smokers only) will be able to enjoy CAMEL
gratis product throughout the evening, providing extensive trial opportunities
while utilizing the promotional entertainment program for brand recognition
and support.

Please see the attached calendar and schedule for relative location information.

** More specific locations and dates will be determined subsequent to PMI
marketing manager pre-sell activity.

ao
©
~t
Nw
b
o
ol
~l
&