EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

CAMEL SUMMER RESORT PROGRAM
"SMOOTH MOVES"
May 12, 1989

This executive summary serves as a synopsis of the 14 week CAMEL Summer
Resort Program referred to as the "Smooth Moves". The Summer Program, to be
executed on the Eastern Seaboard, will be somewhat similar to the successful Spring
Resort (Daytona Beach) Program with minor revisions and improvements. It is
anticipated that the "Smooth Moves" will perform 8 - 10 shows per week with
exposure in approximately 10 - 14 markets (depending on final scheduling) that
represent a significant concentration of targeted younger adult smokers. The
following information serves as a reference guide to the elements integral in
achieving successful CAMEL 1) brand exposure, 2) Smooth Character/Smooth
Moves promotional campaign reinforcement, 3) extensive product trial sampling,
and 4) effective promotional entertainment while targeting the younger adult
smoker demographic (21 - 25 years of age).

1. "Smooth Moves" - Promotional Entertainment

The center of the Summer Resort Program will be a revised edition of the
Spring Resort Program executed in Daytona Beach. Utilizing the talents of
three attractive female entertainers and a fast - moving male emcee, the 45
minute live performance will consist of the highest quality pre-recorded
music (or tracks), exciting choreography, stunning vocal stylings, and
audience participation. The contemporary format includes recognizable
popular Top 40 pop and dance music - music relative to the targeted
audience and club attendee. Original lyrics add to the creative flavor of the
performance while also supporting the "Smooth Moves" concept. Joe makes
his crowd pleasing celebrity appearance in the show's finale.

2 Audience Participation

A. Dance Contest - At one point during the performance, couples (who are
not "together") will be randomly chosen to participate in the onstage dance
contest during which the couples are placed in ONE pair of boxer shorts -
quite a unique dance style. The crowd chooses the winner and CAMEL
prizes are rewarded to all participants.

a
oO
~]
MN
fh
Oo
gi
~
@