MARYLAND TOBACCO
4 |

SOUTHERN MARYLAND TOBACCO BOARD, INC.
P.O. BOX 55

CHARLOTTE HALL, MARYLAND 20622
Telephone: (301) 884-2144; 870-2520 (metro)

FAX (301) 884-3846

The Southern Maryland Tobacco Board

The Southern Maryland Tobacco Board was formed by the tobacco growers
of Southern Maryland for the promotion of Maryland tobacco. The Board also acts
as a go between for new customers and brokers. We feel this is important to help
new customers, to show that we appreciate their interest in our crop, and to help
them get started on the right foot.

With new markets opening up throughout the world for American-type —
cigarettes, this offers a great opportunity for Maryland American-type cigarettes are
considered the best in the world. In some countries they are also considered a
status symbol. The Board feels that these countries that are hungry for
American-type cigarettes offer the greatest opportunity for Maryland tobacco.

The countries of the Asian Pacific Rim and Eastern Europe seem to be the
most promising at this time. The Pacific Rim countries probably offer the greatest
promise because of better economic conditions and availability of hard currency.

A trip by four Board members to the sixth World Tobacco Expo in Vienna,
Austria had positive results. Three countries, Hungary, Egypt, and Indonesia have
asked for samples. These requests have been forwarded to the licensed tobacco
brokers. The trip also helped put Maryland tobacco out front for the world to see,
We hope this leads to requests by more countries for samples. We also were
pleased to learn that Austria Tabak, the Austrian national tobacco monopoly has
started using Maryland tobacco again. Dr. Karl Just, head of raw leaf for Austria
Tabak, said Maryland tobacco was very competitive in the world markets right now.

One other factor in Maryland's favor at this time is a worldwide shortage of air »

cured tobacco. This isn’t to say there is no t.ced to promote Maryland tobacco. Now
is the time to push our product and tell potential customers why they should use
Maryland. While air cured tobacco is short now, if prices rise, nobody knows how
many growers may try to raise air cured types of tobacco in the future. We owe it to
ourselves to continue to promote our product so we can remain competitive in the
market place.

   
 

ZBTIL O6OTS