FF = Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first, midolo,_Newcom, Samuel Re
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following Information for tha kay personnel and consultants and collaborators. Bagin with the principal
Investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

POSITION TITLE
Associate Professor of Medicine

  
 

 
   

NAME
Samuel R. Newcom

  
  
 
 
  

 
  

 
 

 
 

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

      

   

YEAR
DEGREE CONFERRED

1965

   

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION

University of California,
Berkeley and Santa Barbara

University of Southern California
Los Angeles

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Kay personnel Include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the sclentific development or execution of the project.
Key personnal typically will Include all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will Include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate leval provided they contribute in a substantive way to tha sclentitic development or execution of the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government publle advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, all authars, and complete references to ail Publications during the

past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO. NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.
Reasearch Training:

1966~68 Research Fellow, Division of Immunology, Department of Medicine
Principal Investigator: Dr. George J. Fricu, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles,
Support, National Institute of Allergy and Immunology

1973-74 Research Fellow, Cell Culture and Cellular Immunology, Principal
Investigators: Drs. Marshall E. Kadin and Stephen B. Shohet
University of California, San Francisco, Support, National Cancer
Institute

1978-79 Postdoctoral Fellow, Growth Factor Characterization & Purification
Principal Investigator: Dr. Denis Gospodarowicz, University of
California, San Francisco, Support, National Institutes of Health

Professional Experience:

1969-70 Medical Intern and Senior Assistant Surgeon, USPHS, Staten Island,
New York

1970-72 Resident in Internal Medicine, University of Southern California

1972-73 Fellow in Medical Oncology, Cancer Research Institute, University
of California, San Francisco

1973-74 Fellow in Hematology/Medical Oncology, University of California,
San Francisco

1974-75 Instructor in Medicine, University of Oregon, Portland

1975-79 Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine, Chief, Medical Oncology
Clinic, Cancer Research Institute, University of California, San
Francisco

1979-82 Assistant Professor of Medicine, Chief Medical Oncology,
University of Oregon, Portland

1982-84 Associate Professor of Medicine, Chief Medical Oncology,
University of Oregon, Portland

1984- Associate Professor of Medicine, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, Attending Physcian, Grady Memorial Hospital

FIELD OF STUDY

   

        
 
     

Chemistry

1969 Medicine

  
 

Honors:
A.B. cum laude

Junior Faculty Fellow, American Cancer Society, 1980-33
Who’s Who in the West, 1984,1985°

Bibliography: (selected from 2 books, 35 peer-reviewed publications, 32

abstracts and 8 chapters)

i. Kadin ME, Newcom SR, Gold SB, Stites DP: Origin of Hodgkin’s cells.
Lancet i1:167-168, 1974

PHS 398 (Rev, 9/91) : (Form Page 6) Page FF
Number pages consecutively at tha bottom throughout the application, Do notuse suitixes such 8s Ja, 3b.