the PS-6 study, exposure to gasoline vapors increased liver
tumors in female mice and renal tumors in male rats.
Extrapolation issues for mice and rats differ and are considered

separately:

Mice: The interpretation of increased tumors in mouse liver
following chemical exposures has, historically, been very
difficult. The B6C3F1 mouse strain used in the PS-6 study has a
high spontaneous incidence of liver tumors. These rates are
highly variable, and tend to be roughly 3-6 times higher in males
(7-58%) than females (0-21%). Furthermore, increased incidences
of mouse liver tumors have followed treatments with a broad
variety of chemicals, many of them non-genotoxic. Such liability
coupled with high spontaneous rates suggests that tumorigenesis
in mouse livers results non-specifically from factors that either
stimulate cellular proliferation or alter genetic expression.

The tumor oncogene active in the B6C3F1 mouse liver, furthermore,
might bear little or no relationship to those that might be
expressed in humans. It is also puzzling that the changes in
incidence occurred only in the female mice, and brought the final
incidence in the high-dose female group up to the level observed

in the non-exposed males.

Despite these problems with interpretion of the mouse liver
data, the potential relevance to humans of increased mouse liver
tumorigenesis following gasoline vapor exposure cannot be
overlooked entirely. More needs to be known about hydrocarbon-
induced carcinogenic processes in the mouse liver.

Rats: The key pathological manifestations in rats from the
PS-6 study are confined to male kidneys, and consist of the
following series of events: progressive hydrocarbon-induced
nephropathy, advanced old rat nephropathy (an endemic condition),

and tumorigenesis.

Spontaneous rates for renal tumors in Fischer F344 rats are
extremely low, usually well below 1%. There is no doubt that
chronic exposure to wholly vaporized PS-6 fuel caused the
elevated renal tumor incidence seen in the PS-6 male rats. The

-5-

9906 @8@0TS