major questions relate to (1) the rat as a species highly, if not
uniquely, susceptible to the renal effects of hydrocarbons, (2)
the components of gasoline responsible for renal effects, (3) the
sequence of events and mechanisms leading to renal tumorigenesis,
and (4) their relationship, if any, to the carcinogenic effects

on the mouse liver.

To date, all relevant evidence points to the male rat as
unusually, if not uniquely, susceptible to the nephrotoxic
effects of various hydrocarbons. A variety of hydrocarbons
administered to both sexes of several species (rat, mice, dog,
monkey, guinea pig) has resulted in nephrotoxicity only to male
rats. In motor vehicle gasolines, branched alkane compounds
appear to be predominantly responsible for nephrotoxicity in male
rats. This interpretation is supported by subchronic inhalation
experiments with rats exposed to different individual naphtha
streams and by experiments gavaging rats with individual
compounds, distillate cuts, or naphtha streams. The inhalation
experiments, conducted under API sponsorship as follow-on to the
PS-6 study, allowed the analysis of compound-specific toxicity.
Briefly stated, the gavage studies show that the degree of
branching within compounds is an important determinant of
nephrotoxicity, perhaps more important than molecular size.
Toxicity was observed only in branched alkanes with 6 or more
carbons.

Genotoxicity studies conducted to date are negative for
whole unleaded gasoline and trimethylpentane (TMP). (TMP is one
of the most nephrotoxic compounds in the gavage bioasssay.) The
pathologic process in male rats leading from gasoline vapor
exposure to neoplasia is not yet clear. The evidence collected
to date implies, but does not prove, that pre-existing
hydrocarbon nephropathy is a necessary condition for renal
tumorigenesis and may be its proximal cause. Thus far, renal
neoplasia has not been observed in the absence of hydrocarbon-
induced injury. The emerging picture suggests that the

LS06 O8OTS