fn

® 344) and mice (B6C3F1) of both sexes were exposed to wholly
vaporized unleaded gasoline for approximately two years.
Exposures were for 6 hours/day,’ 5 days/week for the entire
duration of the experiment. Four different concentrations were
employed to test for a dose-response relationship: 0 ppm
(control), 67 ppm ,292 ppm, and 2,056 ppm. Animals were
sacrificed for interim examination at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months,
and for final analyses at the termination of the experiment.

According to the investigators, "The most important findings
in this chronic study are the early and progressive renal [or
kidney] tubular disease seen in male rats in the first year, the
advent and enhanced development of old rat nephropathy in the
second year with a parallel appearance of certain preneoplastic
changes, and the final appearance of primary renal neoplasms in
the male rats." In addition, the study reports a significant
increase in hepatocellular carcinomas and adenomas in female
mice. The chronic exposure did not appear to increase mortality

@ in either species, and the tumors were not immediately life-

threatening.

The International Agency for Research on Cancer(IARC)
operates under the auspices of the World Health Organization and,
in 1971, established a program to evaluate potential human cancer
risks. According to IARC criteria, the research suggests that
gasoline vapors, as generated in this study, are animal
carcinogens and presumptive human carcinogens.

Despite these designations, and the fact that the chronic
study was well conducted, a number of key issues require
resolution before the relevance of the animal results to man can
be established, and before the risks encountered in ambient human
environments can be quantified with any confidence. The issues
center around (1) the vapor composition in the experiment as
compared to ambient compositions and (2) the applicability to man

of the animal models used in the bioassay. In addition to these wi

-

@ unresolved questions, uncertainties remain regarding (3) the S
. magnitude and extent of human exposures to gasoline vapors in ©
S

ol

ws

-3-