The data accumulated thus far yield order-of-magnitude
estimates with respect to the largest suspected sources of
population exposures to gasoline vapors. Ongoing and future work
will enhance our understanding of temporal patterns of exposure
and of the chemical species reaching the breathing zone; in
addition, assessments should broaden to include other populations
such as tank truck drivers and residents downwind of refining or
marketing sources.

Epidemiology

Perhaps nowhere is the deficiency of adequate exposure data
more acute than in the epidemiological literature on occupational
groups exposed to gasoline vapors. Although occupational
exposure data bases are now being developed, it is likely they
will have limited value in assessing long-term retrospective
health trends, since work practices have changed and ambient
vapor concentrations are probably lower than they used to be.

For the most part available studies have used job descriptions as

surrogates for exposure.

The recent published analyses of the epidemiologic
literature related to petroleum operations concentrate
predominantly on renal cancer, owing in large measure to excess
cancers in kidneys of male rats chronically exposed to wholly
vaporized gasoline in the PS-6 study. Taken collectively, the
available studies may weakly suggest, but do not prove, an
association between exposure to petroleum hydrocarbons and
increased renal cancers. This conclusion is reached after
consideration of the six epidemiological canons for causation:

(1) Strength of association. In those studies with excess
kidney cancers, the overall relative risk was below 1.75, and,
therefore, suggests only a weak to moderate association, if any.
None of the excesses was statistically significant.

(2) Consistency. A large proportion of the available
studies, particularly those with short follow-up times, report
relative risks below one. For example, in the group of twelve
cohort studies reviewed by Enterline and Viren, 6 had standard

0906 O8@TS

-9-