mortality ratios (SMRs) above 100, 5 below 100, and one had no
kidney deaths with which to compute an SMR.

(3) Temporal relationship. Of the six criteria this one is
perhaps best satisfied. In the Enterline-Viren review, the me aia
authors noted a possible association between occupationally 9 wk. 4
related kidney cancer and an index of age (bladder cancer
deaths/kidney cancer deaths). Enterline followed up with an
analysis of five studies for which temporal data were available;
four showed a positive association of kidney cancer with time,
and one did not. Enterline calculated each study's estimate of
the unit risk factor. The factors were similar to the unit risk
factor that EPA calculated from the rat data in the PS-6 study.
In discussing the suggestiveness of his. findings, Enterline also
commented that “the close agreement shown here may be only a
coincidence." The comment appears apt in view of the clear
differences between the PS-6 rats and humans with respect to the
specific vapors they were exposed to and their temporal exposure
patterns.

A number of caveats require mention, despite the fact that
Enterline' s analyses were thoughtful and careful and possibly
suggestive. One study of the original five with temporal data
was discarded because the renal cancer SMR correlated negatively
with time; within each of the four used, the calculated unit risk
factors correlated positively with estimated exposure duration, |
but the variation in risk among the four correlated negatively
with exposure duration. One of the studies showed no secular
trend when latency rather than length of employment was the
independent variable. Another, by Enterline's reckoning, was
significantly weakened by difficulties related to its use of
proportionate mortality ratios and to ascertainment of death. —

(4) Dose-response relationship. The scarcity of exposure.
data prevents a serious attempt to analyze for dose-response © in
the available literature.

(5) Biologic plausibility and coherence. As discussed -
earlier in some detail, the mechanisms of renal toxicity.

1906 @8eTs

710-