The Tobacco Institute

 

 

1875 I Street, Northwest
Washington, DC 20006
(800) 424-9876
«+. ON YOUTH SMOKING
REDUCING ACCESS

Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan has proposed measures whereby
states would take new legislative action on proposals such as licensing tobacco retailers

and banning vending machines.

Such measures are misdirected. The National Automatic Merchandising Association, the
national trade association of the vending industry, indicates that nearly 80 percent of all
cigarette vending machines are located where persons under the age of 18 are not
allowed access or rarely frequent.

o Almost a third of all cigarette vending machines are located in bars and
cocktail lounges. Nearly 40 percent are found in industrial plants and offices,
and almost 8 percent are found in hotels, motels and other generally adult
settings. Thus, a ban on cigarette vending machines would primarily remove
adult - not youth - access.

Those few vending machines that are located in places where youth may
frequent should be supervised, The tobacco industry will support legislation
in the states to accomplish this goal. This action -- not a ban on vending
machines in workplaces or bars - will help reduce youth access.

Licensing of tobacco retailers is also suggested as a regulatory approach to reducing
purchase of cigarettes by young people. However, the logic used -- that tobacco should
be sold in the same restrictive manner as alcohol -- also argues against this as an
effective solution.

o A 1989 Health and Human Services report tells us that "despite the fact that
it is illegal for virtually all high school students and most college students to
purchase alcoholic beverages, experience with alcohol is almost universal
among them and active use is widespread." The report indicates that two of
every three high school seniors report alcohol use in the last month.

Right now, it is illegal for cigarettes to be sold to minors in almost every
state in the country. Laws are already in place. Enforcement of these laws
is the best way to keep adult products, like cigarettes, from being sold to
young people.

In the past — and for the future —~ the tobacco industry has maintained responsible
positions on the issue of smoking by young people. The longstanding policy of cigarette
manufacturers is that the choice to smoke or not to smoke is to be made by informed

adults.

 

 

Ber

TIO607-1122