THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC.
So i
SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 THIRD AVENUE

SEW York, NY 10022

(212) 421-8885

JAMES F, GLENN, M.D.

CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT July 10, 1997
CHIEF EX ecutive OFFICER

Michael Karin, Ph.D.

Department of Pharmacology
University of California, San Diego
9500 Gilman Drive, Dept. 0636

La Jolla, CA 92093-0636

 

Dear Dr. Karin:

  
      
    
      
 
   
     
     

I am writing to you as a current or former grantee of The Council for Tobacco
Rescarch, U.S.A., Inc., in order to inform you of one aspect of the agreement recently reached
by the Attorneys General of several states and representatives of the tobacco industry, our
funding sponsors.

This agreement, which will require Congressional legislation for implementation, calls
for disbanding and dissolving The Council for Tobacco Research within 90 days after such
legislation goes into effect. Anticipating that such legislation may be enacted, we have decided
that it will not be prudent for us to fund further grant applications.

  

Accordingly, we have suspended review of all new and competing renewal grant
applications. However, we intend to meet the obligations we have to current grantees. In short,
those of you who have an active grant with CTR can expect that our obligation to you will be
met, but no new grant applications or competing renewals will be considered,

I deeply regret this decision. I believe that the vicious attack on CTR by the Attorneys
General reflected a profound misunderstanding of the mission of CTR in supporting the
biomedical research community. It is unfortunate that this action will deprive the scicntific
community of $20 million dollars annually that might well be spent on important scientific
research. This ill-considered demand by the Attorneys General will penalize the biomedical

rescarch community and the public at large. You have the collective good wishes of the staff of
The Council for Tobacco Research and our sponsors.

  
   
       
    
 
  
 
  
   
 
   

Respectfully,

vf
James F. Glenn, M.D.

JFG:mm