283100884
ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

 

PRODUC]

Barton H. Freedman
Brian A. Cromer
March 12, 1999
Page 2

has been sold, and they have no other available 14x48 billboard space available to
provide. Consequently, we are arranging to substitute six 8-sheet posters, as listed at
the end of the list, with locations to be determined. The.cost to Brown & Williamson is

the same.

When we spoke, I mentioned several Lamar billboards, located in Ironton and
Steubenville, that we leamed about from West Virginia, which had received the lists in
error. As listed, there are four 30-sheet posters in Ironton and 10 30-sheet posters in
Steubenville. Additionally, there is one 14x48 billboard in Steubenville.

These billboards have been part of Brown & Williamson’s outdoor advertising
program for at least several years. Apparently, these showings have always been
seasonal: approximately nine months a year in Steubenville and six months a year in
Ironton. The contracts for these 1999 showings were entered prior to MSA execution,
for showings to commence in January. Subsequent to MSA execution, Brown &
Williamson sought to exercise the early termination provision of the billboard contracts.

I believe these billboards are covered by the MSA alternative advertising
provisions, and Ohio is entitled to the use of these billboards. These facts do not
warrant exclusion of these billboards as “new space not yet used for advertising tobacco
products.”

Please review the list we compiled and let me know if you have any questions.
Unless we hear otherwise, we plan to proceed with alternative advertising on all listed
billboards commencing April 22, 1999, and we will work directly with the vendors to
complete the necessary arrangements. Oo

Lastly, several of the vendors have raised concems or uncertainty about payment
for the space we plan to use. While you may not have created the concern (and the
concerns do not necessarily pertain to Brown & Williamson) it would be helpful if you
could provide written confirmation for each of the vendors that they will be paid for the

listed billboards.