Medical Sciences: Miller ef al.

 
 

      

  
   

      

tte . +
adadzresesis road
Le a zt
PEFPEEEEEFESS haan
Sezessessssaqq www
a cen ame ok sama IEEE

Be
want

Fic. 3. Effect of LMP2 expression on slg crosslinking-mediated
induction of lytic EBV infection as measured by immunoblotting
LCL proteins for the immediate-early gene product BZLF1 (Z)
(Upper) or early lytic antigens (EA) (Lower). WT (Leff) or ES LMP2
(Right) mutant recombinant EBV-infected LCLs were either un-
treated (—) or treated (+) with 100 yg of goat anti-human immuno-
globulin per ml for 48 hr (23). Proteins from 2 x 105 cells were
separated on duplicate SDS/10% polyacrylamide gels, transferred to
nitrocellulose, blocked 1 hr (5% milk/phosphate-buffered saline/
0.1% Tween 20), and incubated either with BZ] monoclonal antibody
to the BZLF1 protein or with human EBV immune serum, which
reacts strongly with EBV early lytic antigens, followed by Ws].
labeled protein A detection. Size standards (kDa), EA, and Z are
indicated.

Deficient LCLs Equally Permissive for EBV Replication. To
determine whether WT LCLs could become as permissive for
lytic EBV infection as the ES LCLs, cell cultures were
treated with A23187, a calcium ionophore, and PMA, a direct
activator of protein kinase C, in an attempt to bypass the
LMP? block and activate those second messenger pathways
normally activated by slg crosslinking. The same set of five
WT and five ES LCLs were incubated with A23187 and PMA
for 48 hr and analyzed as described above for Z and EA
induction (Fig, 4). The Z immunoblots indicate that four of
five WT LCLs became as permissive for expression of the Z
transactivator as four of five ES LCLs (compare Fig. 4 Upper
Left and Upper Right). The WT3 and ESS LCLs consistently
displayed lower Z protein levels relative to the other LCLs in
repeat experiments (data not shown). Z immunofluorescence
confirmed a similar range of induction, with 5~10% of the
cells positive, in both WT and ES LCLs. Early and late EBV

ptaterad, ¢ so nc
dagerrre so gon hoor et
AMNMNMMN HNN W
BSSSSSSEE5 SYRHakkeee
66-
45
> ww -

 

Eby
oa
-
nt

Fic. 4. PMA and calcium ionophore A23187 induced expression
of immediate-early (Z) (Upper) and early lytic proteins (EA) (Lower)
in WT (Left) and LMP2 mutated recombinant EBV-infected LCLs
(Right). Cells were either untreated (—) or treated (+) with 7.5 uM.
calcium ionophore A23187 and 30 ng of PMA per ml for 48 hr (36).
Cellular proteins were immunoblotted as described in Fig. 3. Blots
originally probed with the BZ] monoclonal antibody were later
reblocked and reprobed with a human serum reactive with EBV EA.
Size standards are in kDa.

 

50691514

Prov, Natl Acad. Sci. USA 91 (1994) 775

lytic infection-associated proteins were also similarly in-
duced by A23187 and PMA treatment in the WT and LMP2
mutant-infected LCLs (Fig. 4 Lower). Each ES LCL dis-
played significant levels of EA induction, even in the ESS cell
line, which had the lowest level of induced Z protein at 48 hr.
Four of five WT LCLs also showed significant EA induction.
WT1IL, while capable of inducing high levels of BZLF1 upon
PMA and A23187 treatment, repeatedly tested negative for
concomitant EA induction, The EA blot shows one band in
WT11*, which is a residual signal from the BZLF1 immu-
noblot (Fig. 4 Lower Left). Immunofluorescence for gp110
expression confirmed the EA immunoblot results and mdi-
cated that most WT and ES recombinant-infected LCLs were
induced by PMA and A23187 to express similarly significant
levels of gp110 in 2-10% of the cells.

DISCUSSION

These experiments demonstrate that LMP2A blocks the
effects of sIg crosslinking on normal human B lymphocytes
that had been growth transformed by WT EBV recombi-
nants. sIg-mediuted calcium mobilization was markedly re-
duced in WT EBV-infected LCLs, while LCLs lacking LMP2
had changes in intracellular free calcium similar to those
expected in normal primary B lymphocytes (37). The N-ter-
minal cytoplasmic domain unique to LMP2A is essential for
this effect on calcium mobilization, since the 19S EBV
recombinants, which express LMP2B, are phenotypically
indistinguishable from the LMP2 null mutant ES recombi-
nants. LMP? expression was also found to block the effects
of sIg-crosslinking on activation of lytic EBV infection. Most
WT LCLs failed to become permissive for lytic EBV infec-
tion, whereas the LMP?2-deficient cell line became substan-
tially permissive. Finally, WT and LMP2-deficient LCLs
could be rendered equally permissive for EBV replication by
using pharmacological agents to raise intracellular free cal-
cium levels and activate protein kinase C, messengers nor-
mally triggered by slg crosslinking.

The ability of LMP2 to block immunoglobulin-induced
signal transduction and to ultimately regulate viral permis-
sivity is most likely linked to LMP2A interaction with B
lymphocyte src family tyrosine kinases. Studies with tyrosine
Kinase inhibitors have shown that tyrosine kinase activation
is closely associated with anti-immunoglobulin-induced EBV
reactivation (38). In latently EBV-infected LCLs, LMP2A
interacts with src family members lyn and fyn and a 70-kDa
tyrosine phosphoprotein (pp70), which may also be a tyrosine
kinase (14, 21). The interaction with src family tyrosine
kinases is likely to be through the YXXL sequences, which
are present in the N-terminal sequence of LMP2A and
resemble antigen receptor homology 1 motifs (Fig. 1) G1).
Antigen receptor homology motifs have been identified in
cytoplasmic sequences of components of the B-cell antigen
receptor, the T-cell receptor, and Fc receptors. These motifs
are responsible for signal relay after antigen binding and
mediate activation of downstream effector molecules (32).
An LMP2A mutant consisting of the N terminus through the
first two transmembrane domains retains the ability to inter-
act with src tyrosine kinases and pp70 and to become tyrosine
phosphorylated (21). The critical role of the LMP2A N-ter-
minal domain is also highlighted by the identity of the 19S
mutation to the ES mutation in reversing the LMP2A block
on mobilization of intracellular free calcium. The intermedi-
ate phenotype of the 260S LMP2 mutation indicates that the
transmembrane domains of LMP2 are also important, per-
haps by affecting the stability of these proteins in the plasma
membrane.

The effect of LMP2 in downmodulating the effects of slg
crosslinking on B-lymphocyte activation and permissivity for
lytic EBV infection points to a potentially critical role for