Proc, Natl. Acad. Sci. USA .
Vol. 91, pp. 772-776, January 1994 .
Medical Sciences

An integral membrane protein (LMP2) blocks reactivation of
Epstein-Barr virus from latency following surface

immunoglobulin crosslinking

Cyerye L. MILER, JENNIFER H. Lee, ELLiott Kierr*, AND RICHARD LONGNECKERT

Departments of Medicine and Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 75 Francis S$:reet, Boston, MA 02115

Communicated by Peter M. Howley, October 8, 1993 (received for review August 30, 1993)

ABSTRACT The role of latent membrane protein 2
(LMP?) in Epstein-Barr virus (EBY) infection was evaluated
by using latently infected primary B lymphocytes that had been
growth transformed by wild-type or specifically mutated EBV
recombinants. LMP2 null mutant recombinant EBV-infected
cells were similar to normal B lymphocytes in their rapid
increase in intracellular free calcium after surface immuno-
globulin crosslinking. These cells also became more permissive
for lytic EBV replication. In sharp contrast, wild-type control
infected cells had little or no increase in intracellular free
calcium or in permissivity for EBV replication. The bleck to
surface immunoglobulin crosslinking-induced permissivity in
cells expressing wild-type LMP2 could be bypassed by raising
intracellular free catcium levels with an ionophore and by
activating protein kinase C with phorbol 12-myristate 13-
acetate. LMP2A, not LMP2B, mediates this effect on calcium
mobilization. Genetic and biochemical data are consistent with
these effects being due to the interaction of the LMP2A
N-terminal cytoplasmic domain with B lymphocyte sre family
tyrosine kinases.

 

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a herpes virus that establishes
latency in B lymphocytes during primary infection. Latent
infection of B lymphocytes is likely to be essential for
perpetuation of this virus in human populations, since virus
reactivation from latency is the major reservoir of virus for
infection of susceptible hosts. In latent infection, the virus
can express six nuclear proteins [EBV nuclear antigens
(EBNAs)], two integral membrane proteins [latent mem-
brane proteins (LMPs)}, and two small RNAs, thereby caus-
ing proliferation of the infected lymphocyte (1-3). Latently
infected lymphocytes can cause a lymphoproliferative dis-
ease in immunodeficient individuals (4-6). The EBNAs and
LMPs are being intensively studied since they are likely to be
involved in the maintenance or regulation of latency or of the
concomitant effects on cell proliferation. This report focuses
on LMP2, the protein(s) most recently discovered to be
expressed in latently infected B lymphocytes (7-9).

Two forms of LMP2 (designated LMP2A and -2B) are
expressed in latently infected B lymphocytes. Both forms are
encoded by highly related mRNAs composed of eight exons
with a single long open reading frame, differing only in their
first exons (10-12). The first exon of LMP2A encodes a
119-amino acid hydrophilic N terminus that is unique to
LMP2A. The promoter for LMP2B is in the first LMP2A
intron, and the first LMP2B exon is noncoding. The first
codon of the second exon in LMP2A and -2B is a methionine
codon, at which translation of LMP2B initiates. That methi-
onine is followed by 12 predicted hydrophobic transmem-
brane domains separated by short reverse turns and a 27-

The publication costs of this article were defrayed in part by page charge
payment. This article must therefore be hereby marked “advertisement”
in accordance with 18 U.S.C. §1734 solely to indicate this fact.

772

50691511

amino acid hydrophilic C terminus (see Fig. 1). LMP2A and
-2B posttranslationally insert into membranes (12).

Although initial biochemical evidence pointed to an im-
portant role for LMP2 in cell growth transformation, EBV
recombinants with mutations affecting any part of LMP2 are
fully competent for inducing B-lymphocyte transformation
and the transformed cells are indistinguishable from wild type
(WT) in growth in vizro or in severe combined immunodefi-
ciency (scid) mice (13), (C.L.M., R.L., and E.K., unpub-
lished data). Nevertheless, LMP2A does associate with
LMP1 in latently infected cell plasma membranes (14), and
LMP1 is a key effector of EBV-induced cell growth trans-
formation (15-20). Furthermore, LMP2A patches in the
plasma membrane are major sites of tyrosine phosphoryla-
tion, and LMP?2A is associated with, and tyrosine phosphor-
ylated by, B-lymphocyte sre family tyrosine kinases (14, 21).

The experiments described in this report were designed to
test the hypothesis that a key role of LMP? in interacting with
src-related tyrosine kinases is to block transmembrane signal
transduction in latently EBV-infected lymphocytes and
thereby prevent fortuitous activation of lytic infection. Three
previous lines of evidence are consistent with this hypothe-
sis. First, crosslinking of surface immunoglobulin (slg) can
activate a switch to lytic replication in a few latently EBV-
infected cell lines (22, 23). The cell line in which crosslinking
of sIg can most efficiently induce such effects is a Burkitt
lymphoma cell tine in which LMP2 is not expressed (24).
Second, expression of LMP2A in Burkitt tumor lymphoblasts
at the level normally seen in latently infected ceils blocks the
calcium mobilization response to crosslinking of slg, CD19,
or major histocompatibility complex class II (25). Finally,
LMP2aA interacts with src family tyrosine kinases, which are
key effectors of sig-mediated B-lymphocyte activation (26).
We now present evidence that LMP2A blocks the effects of
slg crosslinking on calcium mobilization and reactivation of
EBV from latent infection in growth-transformed normal
human B lymphocytes.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Cell Lines and Cell Culture. Lymphoblastoid cell lines
(LCLs) were established by infecting normal human B tym-
phocytes with either WT or LMP2 mutant recombinant EBV
(13, 27, 28). LCLs were maintained in RPMI 1640 medium
supplemented with 15% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum
and gentamicin (2 u2/ml). Akata is a membrane IgG-positive
Burkitt lymphorna cell line.

 

Abbreviations: EBV, Epstein~Barr virus; LCL, lymphoblastoid cell
line; LMP, latent membrane protein; slg, surface immunoglobulin;
PMA, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate; WT, wild type.

*To whom reprint requests should be addressed.

Present address: Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
Northwestern University, 303 East Chicago Avenue, Chicago, IL