Environmental Tobacco Smoke in Aircraft Cabins:
A Scientific Perspective

The U.S. Department of Transportation’s position on the issue of smoking 2.
in aircraft cabins is based on scientific principles. In responding to
recommendations offered by the National Academy of Sciences in their report on
the Airliner Cabin Environment, the Department recognized that exposure to
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) could be viewed as a problem by some crew ,
and passengers [emphasis added]. They concluded, however, “that further :
study is needed before the Department can propose a definitive response to
[the Academy's} recommendation". The call for further study reflects the
simple fact that not enough is known about the concentrations of ETS in cabins
and therefore non-smokers’ exposure to ETS. Attitudes bearing on the issue
are currently more subjective than objective.

The scientific literature contains but a few reports providing
information regarding measurements of ETS in cabins. All these reports share
a common feature: . data indicate ETS concentrations to be very low.

In a report to be published in October, 1987 in the American Chemical
Society’s periodical, Environmental Science & Technology, Oldaker and Conrad
find ETS exposures in no-smoking sections to average 4 thousandths of a
"cigarette equivalent"* for an approximate one-hour flight. Additionally,
these researchers find that segregation effectively reduces non-smokers’

exposure to ETS. Comparable exposures were reported by Japanese researchers
in . .

Historically, findings of low ETS concentrations extend back to the first
such reported study which was commissioned jointly by the Departments of
Health Education and Welfare and Transportation. One notable aspect of this
study is that it was conducted before segregation was required. The other is
that the segregation requirement ultimately derived not from the results of
the measurements but from responses to questionnaires on passengers’ attitudes
toward smoking.

Experiments have also been performed involving measurements of flight
attendants’ bodily fluids in order to estimate exposure to ETS. These
experiments can be summarized with the conclusions drawn in the New England
Journal of Medicine by one research group representing the San Francisco
General Hospital Medical Center:

the quantity of [nicotine, an indicator of ETS] consumed
{equivalent to one cigarette} is relatively small compared
with that consumed by cigarette smokers, and the
concentrations achieved are unlikely to have physiologic
effects.

.*The "smoke equivalent of a cigarette” is calculated from measurements of
nicotine and particles, major components of environmental tobacco smoke.
Calculation assumes a person breathing at a certain rate and a cigarette
delivering a sales-weighted average amount of nicotine and/or tar as reported
by the FTC. The cigarette equivalent is an estimate of. exposure and should
not be confused with dose (that {s, how much smoke a person breathes and

9229 62905

-l-