Le

s%

PER BwALSH .

July ~ September Quarterly Report - Human Studies

Determination of Carboxyhemoglobin (COHb) levels in smokers -

In the urine mutagencity study, COHb levels were
determined for smokers during the puff
profile/blood/breathing studies using an Instrumentation
Laboratories Model #482 Cooximeter. Blood was drawn at
time 0 + 10 min. after lighting for both test and reference
cigarettes. COHb levels were also determined during the
Pharmacokinetic Study for both test & reference brands.
Blood was drawn at time 0, and times 7.5 and 10 min. during
smoking of the 7th cigarette. (See Cheryl Miller's report
for comments on statistics).

Thiocyanate (SCN) Levels in Smokers and Nonsmokers -

Data on serum SCN levels was graphed for each smoking
group as well as the nonsmoking group in the Urine
Mutagenicity Study. Blood was drawn (non-fasting) at four ~
different intervals during the study, with the 2nd and 3rd 7.
draw dates unique to each group (Si's 7/15 and 7/29, S2's =... ~
7/29 and 8/12, NS's 7/22 & 8/5). SCN levels were high for
non-smokers initially. Each group had the lowest level on
their 3rd drawing, even though they were on different dates.
The 3rd drawing was during the test smoking period for each
smoking group. .

Development of Data Base for Human Studies -

Data Bases were established on the Sun computer for
subject information, pre & post study physical information,
and COHb levels. To date, most of the data has been entered.
Data base for clinical chemistries remains to be developed.

Collection of Data regarding Chemical Exposure -

The seventy-two participants in the Urine Mutagenicity
Study were asked to keep a daily record of exposure to
tobacco products, chemicals, and any medications taken.
Weekly reports were generated from these diaries and provided
to the Genetic Toxicology Group. The reports will be used in
conjunction with Ames tests on 24-hour urine samples obtained
on Days 5 and 7 for each of 6 weeks. As the results of the.
Ames tests come in, the appropriate week's report will be \\
screened for any exposure to potential mutagens. ‘

Diet, Method of Food Preparation and Mutagenicity -

High temperature cooking of protein foods has been
associated with the formation of mutagenic compounds. (See
E. Overik, et. al. "High Mutagenic Activity Formed in
Pan-Broiled Pork", Mutation Research, 135 (1984), 149-157 and

£258 9905