"Influence of Frying Fat on Mutagenic Activity in Lean Pork
Meat", Mutation Research, 171 (1986) 115-121). Protein foods
served on urine collection days in the Urine Mutagenicity
Study were noted, as were the methods of preparation. This
information will be scrutinized along with the results of the
Ames tests.

Administrative Duties Relating to Human Studies -

1.

Diet Planning and Implementation - Modifications were
made in the original diet plan to insure balanced
nutrition and ease of preparation within study
guidelines. Subjects received weekend meals in
insulated cardboard containers. They returned the
containers each Monday. During the week, the containers
were inspected and reassembled or replaced as needed.
Weekly reports were compiled for ARA staff from the 72
participant's menu/diaries regarding quality and
palatability of meals. Minor adjustments in packaging
and food preparation were made as indicated.

Security Areas - Smoking areas were set up in various
locations throughout the R&D Complex to permit smoking. |
of the test product while maintaining appropriate .

security. These areas were monitored regularly to se 4

insure compliance with security procedures. ye 8

a

’

Product Distribution and Accountability - Test product.
was obtained from the NPT packaging group. Records were-..
kept for all incoming and outgoing product. All spent
test products were returned by participants, counted for .~
security purposes, and submitted to the alpha analytical
lab for inspection and analysis. Reference product was
obtained from Brands R&D and records of distribution

were kept.

Post-Study Bloodwork, Pulmonary Function Tests &

Physical Exams - All eighty-four participants in the
Human Studies Program (12 in Pharmacokinetics, 72 in

Urine Mutagenicity) were scheduled for post-study

testing. Physicals were completed on September 24th and ‘
data will be entered in the appropriate data base.

Interaction with Subjects - Throughout the Human Study
program, participants were notified in writing (via
printed schedules) as well as by phone prior to each
appearance for bloodwork, smoking, etc. Questions
regarding diet, medications, chemical exposure,
scheduling problems, etc. were handled on an "an needed"
basis.

9258 ys00¢