Mr. William D. Toohey, Jr.
October 4, 1964
Page two

The New York Times, via its offices in New York, expressed
initial interest which then evaporated. We worked both with the
Times' highly respected education columnist Fred Hechinger and
with educaiton editor Ed Fiske. This is still being pursued as
a “trend" story rather than breaking news.

The Wall Street Journal conducted a face-to-face interview with
Jolly and Walker in New York. On the day of the event, “Foxes
In the Coop?" made the break page of the paper. I followed up
with the reporter, Anne MacKay-Smith, who said she would like to
know about program developments if they are "unique." I have
her targeted for more information.

UPI/NY, in the person of Pat McCormick, the wire's long-time
education editor, also did a face-to-face in New York with Jolly
and Walker. The result, she tells me, is a column written last ~,
Thursday for distribution “sometime this week" to the wire's — -;.
subscribers. I'1l forward a copy as soon as it is received. ee
The Associated Press, both in New York and Washington, listened a
to the story but neither have moved -- as yet. Chris Connell in
D.C. immediately left with the Mondale campaign after being
briefed on the project. Lee Mitgang in New York at first
deferred to Connell, then did his own follow-up at week's end.
Lee yesterday said the story is still “on hold.” That means it
is neither dead nor alive. He needs proof of its use. As
statistics become available, we will do just that -- provide him
proof of its value and acceptance.

At Education USA, Sherry Freeland reports an article was sent
via the daily wire and the weekly magazine. Copies of each are
en route and I'll ship them to you when they arrive.

Susan Landers at Education Daily, another member of the
background briefing corps, also filed a story on the project. A
copy of the report -- "it's just a few paragraphs" -- is being
sent. I'll forward it to you as soon as I get it.

The folks who declined our invitation included:

The Washington Post, both news and style. We're still working
with Style on a "trend" angle, ala the New York Times.

The Los Angeles Times' Lee May said it was matter of schedule.
He's on track for follow-up.

(more)

TINY 0011258