Ask First/It’s the Law
Commonly asked Questions from Retailers and Answers

Why is Philip Morris doing this?

Philip Morris wants to play a role in helping to prevent sales of cigarettes to minors and that is the
goal of Ask First/It’s the Law. We simply want to help prevent sales of cigarettes to minors at retail
and recognize that we can develop tools that should work for all retailers.

1 have problems with Philip Morris sponsorship of this program.

Philip Morris is making materials available based on requests from retailers nationwide for effective
tools, and we're trying to meet this need.

Why should | participate?

As a responsible retailer committed to upholding the existing laws that govern the sale of tobacco
products, this program allows you to show your community that you are serious about this issue.
This program also helps you understand the law and educate your employees regarding their
responsibilities.

What does participation mean/What are my responsibilities?

You need to demonstrate that you responsibly sell tobacco products and that you comply with your
state law. For example, if your state requires that a sign be posted, you need to post the state
required sign. If you suspect that a customer is a minor, you need to ask for I.D. If the |.D. doesn’t
indicate that the customer is 18 or 19, as is appropriate, or older, do not make the sale. If you are not
convinced that the 1.D. is valid and/or that the purchaser is not 18 or 19, as is appropriate, or older,
do not make the sale.

What if | don’t participate?

The real issue is to enforce the law. By participating in Ask First/It's the Law, you will deliver a
consistent message to minors and to the community that you are serious about selling tobacco
responsibly.

What if my competitors don’t participate/It’s not going to be effective unless everyone
participates.

We are working hard for full retail participation through direct contact with retailers, trade
associations and through wholesalers.

Will this program prevent unannounced inspections at my store?

No. Inspections are conducted by state agencies on a random basis. However, Ask First/It's the Law
is designed to help you comply with the law.

Attachment D

0402202902