a0 Ro oPgerrs

4

“" Congress to Be Scene of Battle

~ J By RICHARD STARNES _é
“* Seripps-Howord Sratt Weiter . an
». A proposed government ban on cigaret adver-

tising on television and radio has. drawn the lines:

_ for a major congressional battle between pro- and
" anti-tobacco. forces, but the possibility arose to-

day that the controversy will end in a compro. °

mise that’ will limit — but not end — such smok-
ing commercials. wo hen,
‘- “The battle, which was fought to a draw four
“years ago, was kicked off yesterday when the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) vot.
ed 6 to 1 to propose a rule forbidding eigaret ads
~ on TV and radio. . cos

The FCC's action followed a speech Friday by
Sen. Frank E. Moss,
_ cigaret: advertising, who warned he would filibus-
ter if necessary to prevent renewal of a 1985 law
which forbids federal agencies or the: states to
ban cigaret ads. a Vi oe,

Sa Eo

em ee ae

ae
oA,

° ana. Washington Dally News, Thursday,

Surge Ot pee ate oe, -

D.,, Utah, an ardent. foe of’

 

The -law, which will expire on June 3 unless
renewed by Congress, was included in the act
that required a warning on cigarel packages that
smoking may be a hazard to health. Sen. Moss,
who backed the legislation. when it was enacted,
pointed out that it had prevented the FCC:from.
placing any. restrictions on cigareticommercials,
"Tf the law-is permitted to die and if court action
by the cigaret producers does not overturn the
Proposed FCC rule, TV networks stand to lose
more than 25 per cent of their national Spot ad-
vertising. The marketing structure of the tobacco

" industry also will be threatened with convulsive

changes. In. 1967 — the last year for which figures
are available — cigaret' commercials brought
$226.7 million in revenue to: TV networks and
$17.5 million to radio outlets. Oo
FCC: Chairman Rosel. H. Hyde said yester-
day that smoking posed “a most serious, unique
danger to public health.” He cited' Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare (Hew) department statistics
showing there are 50,000.deaths a year from lung

. cancer, 25,000 deaths from: emphysemia and
~ chronic bronchitis, and claiming that one.in three
- of all deaths of men between 35.and 60 is related
, fo cigaret smoking.

COMPROMISES EYED
One element of'a possible compromise was con-

+ tained in the FCC proposal, which suggested an
’ @xamination of whether: cigarets low in tar and

nicotine should be exempted from the TV-radio

“advertising ban. .
Some congressional sources: said they helieved
-&@ Compromise would have to be broader in scope.-
One said:

“For the first time the legislative monkey is on

‘the tobacco industry's back. The ban on.action to

regulate cigaret advertising will be dead June 1)
unless Congress extends it, and that means that
for the first time the anti-cigaret forces don't
have. to do anything.

“The tobacco state Senators and Congressmen
will have to infroduce a bill and: try to get it
passed. A compromise is possible, but it is going
to have to offer a genuine, substantial reduction:

‘in TV and radio cigareti commercials. A token:.
‘gesture by the cigaret companies simply: isn’t

going to work.”
‘Altho TV and radio networks presumably would

_&ressional function.’’

February 6, 1969 .

et

~ Compromise Held Likely in Cigaret Hassle

be heavy losers if the FCC proposal i adopted,

industry: sources Said this would not necessarily

Teg atta

a Page 6B :

 

amy

be the case. Advertising Age, an-industry journal,

said in: New. York networl:s would not be affected

to any: major extent, A spokesman: noted that

tobacco commercials generally. appear in prima

be quick to move in if these choice spots were
vacated. 8 ; a .

‘A Tobacco. Institute spokesman said the FCC
proposal. “Is an obvious thréat to usurp the con-

At his: press conference, however, FCC Chair.
man Hyde said one purpose of the proposed rule
was to alert Congress, and that Congress would

_ have to be the “final arbiter” of the dispute.
The Tobacco Institute: spokesman saidia scien. ©:

tist associated with “more research in tobacco.
and heaith than any other person” said that no
“causal relationship between smoking and any
disease” had been demonstrated,

DISPUTE HEALTH CHARGE. .

“T€ anything,” the tobacco industry spokesman
quoted the scientist, “the pure biological evidence
is pointing away from, not toward, the causal
hypothesis.” The scientist. was identified as Dr.
Clarence Cook Little, scientific director of tha

' Council: for Tobacco Research-US.A.

Sen. Moss is expected to have strong support in
the Senate Commerce Committee for his move ta
let the present. law expire and thus clear the way
for the FCC ban. Chairman Warren G. Magnuson,
D-Wash. is expected to back Sen. Moss. as is Sea.
John. O.. Pastore, D-R.L, chairman of the subcom-
mittee to which the issue will be referred.

In the House, pro-tobacco forces seem to be ia
a somewhat stronger position.

Rep, Tim'Lee Carter, R-KY., a member ofthe
House Commerce Committee, said: “I feel'some-
thing will be done (to keep the law alive). So
many things are hazardous — 26,000 of 50,60)
drivers killed each year were driving while
drunk. Why not ban TV advertisements for beer
and wine? A group of us will introduce a bilt
conlinuing the present law. We don't want te
destroy. the livelihood of thousands in Kentueky
and North Carolina who depend on tobacco for a
living,”” . :

00625137

“radio-TV time and that other advertisers would —

nee

+ : tk ee ete ah