HL

pes!

coPY

 
   

ssessed by analysis of blood saniples from 47 workers occupatisnally
osed to styrene and 47 unzxposed controls using the glycophorin A
‘A) in vive genotoxicily assay. This assay utilizes moncelfnat
anukodies and low cytometry 40 analyze erythrocytes from heterozygous
GPAYMAN} individuals to enumerate the frequency of variagt red cells
thal hyve lost expression of a single GPA allele. Two classes of allele-
loss vatiants are detected; hemizygous cells that express tHe remaining
GPA allele at a normal single-copy level (N/@ cells), and homozygous
cells thatexpress the remainirg allele at a wo-capy lev¢l (NWN cells).
Any effec\ of styrene exposure appears to be small and is obscured by
confounding effects of the subjects’ smoking habits. Ain exposed
workers variant frequencies per million cells (Vis) were N/D = 10.04
9.1 (mean +} SD) and N/N = 7.8 + 5.7 versus ND = 11.3 9.6 and
N/N © 6.9 £ &4 in the controls. Further, in the sybset of 35 laminators
exposed to the highest air concentrations of styrele, no elevation in GPA
Vfs was observed: N/@ = 9.7 + 7.3, NIN = 8.'t 6.2. People who
smoked appeared\to show inc-eased Vfs indepghdent of styrene
exposure. With control and styrene-exposed groups combined, NAQ Vfs
were significantly devated in smokers, 11,94 10.2 compared to non-
smokers, 8.2 t 5.5 (y = 0.034) and N/N Vig were elevated but not
significantly. Excludlag smokers from the/styrene analysis revealed a
wend (not statistically ygnificant) to higher NAJ and N/N Vfs in the
styrene-exposed workels. In 19 exposed workers N/@ and N/N Vis
were 9.3 + 6.6 and 7.1 Bh
respectively in 14 control! .
somatic genotoxic effect of\styrene e;
(Performed under the auspidgs of
Livermore National Laborato

25

ACRYLAMIDE INDUCED
DOSE CHRON TC ADHINI
R.E. Chapin
J.J.Heindel’, 'NIEH.

Acrylamide, a

   
       
  
   
  
  
  
    
    
     
 
 

sure,
Os. DOE by the Lawrence
ger contract number W-7405-ENG-48

IHANT KETHALITY IN KICE FOLLOWING LOW
DRINKING WATER. J.B.Bishop!,

« T.Orizzle’, B.MK,Sadler®,
Res. Triangle Inet., RTP, NC
inyl monomey, has been shown to induce
dominant lethals And heritable translocations in the germ
cells of male fice after i.p. ‘injections or dermal
Applications, afd dominant lethAle in the germ cella of
male rats folloving oral adminiatkation in drinking water.
The present tegt was designed to characterize induction

  
  
   
   
   

to chronic,
Thie test
weeding {RACB) study
e dosed continuously
for 140 dafs with 0, 10, 20 or 30 ppm acrylamide in their
drinking water. Exposures were estimatéd to be 0, 0.7, 2.1
or 6 mg/fg/day, rempectively. After 20 weeks on study,
each of 20 CD1 males per treatment group\was caged with 3
untreatgd, nulliparous ¢D1 females on each\pf 4 consecutive
nights./ Females were killed 16 days follo ng observation
of a méting plug (or from the second mating \ppportunity if
no plyg was observed) aid their uterine contents analysed
for fhe total numbers of implantations add

fetuges, e

   
  
 
   
     
  
   
 

 
 

administration of acrylamide to
3:273, 1986) and demonstra! induction of chramosone
amage in the germ ceiln of mate mice at dosas lowe
hose previously used in atudies involving singe
multiple acute adminie:ration. (Supported by NTP/RIEKS
Contract # NOJ-ES-65141}

   

  

 
 

26

ASSESSMENT OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVITY OF MAINSTREAM OA
ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE (ETS) USING A CELLULAR SMOKE
EXPOSURE TECHNIQUE. D. W. Bombick*, P. H. Ayres*, P, R, Netson®, C.
RE. Coggins*, D. France*, C. Fulp*, C. Lee and D. J. Doolittle. A. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, NC 27102.

The development of appropriate methods for exposing cell cuttures to
whole smake are necessary for evalualing the biological activity of
environmental lobacce smoke (ETS) in mammalian and bacterial cells. Tho
cellular smake exposure technique (CSET) uses a rocking apparatus that
allows cells to oscillate between exposure to a known smoke concentration
and cuhure medium maintained at 37°C. The neutral red assay in WB rat

ler colls and an Ames assay were used 10 assess Cytotoxicity and
mutagenicily, respectively, Maiastroam smoke generated from 1H4F
feleronce cigaretes was used 10 characterize tne CSET. WB cells were
txposed for one Or two hours to varying Mainstream smoke concentrations
(40 lo 640 mg total paniculate matier(TPM)/m) The TASB Salmonella
bactoria were exposad tor two hours to a mainstream smoke concentration
of 320 mg TPM/m”. The cytotoxicity of 1A4F mainstream smoke to rat liver
Celis was concentration and time dependent with no abserved effect levels
for one and two hour exposures of approximalely 160 and 40 mg TPM/in?,
fespectively. The TAS8 Salmonella strain exhibited approximataly a two-old
increase in the number of revenanis/plale after exposure to tR4F
mainstream smoke and an $9 metabolic activation system. WB cat liver
epithetiat cells and the TASB Salmonetia bacterial strain were exposed to a
telavant concentration of ETS (approximately 1.5 mg TPM/m*) for three
hours. Using the neutral red cytoloxicity and Ames Mutagenesis assays
there were no differences observed in the ETS-exposed cells and their
fespociive room air controls, indicating that ETS was biologically inactive as
tested. The use of CSET permits delermination of concentration X time
relationships and threshold concentrations for the biological effects of
mainstream, sidestream and environmental cigaratie smoke without resorting
10 ariificial smoke collection methods.

  
  
   
  
 

 
 

e Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, CA.
When @ sperm enters an egg’s cyloplasm al fertilization/ the
pt its nuclous expands (rom a few cubic microns into sgveral
thousand cubic microns during the formation of the male pronycleus.
During thig transformation, which Is carried out by biochemica/factors
Storad in the egg cyloplasm during oogenesis, sperm-specili
are replaced by somatic histones, nucleosome structure is res!

   
  

at, in view of the large nuclear volume and the
@ haploid, rather than diploid, chromosomal complement,
of DNA sequentes in male pronuciear chromatin might be/very different
from that In a small, diploid, somatic nucteus. For thié purpose, we
Utilized an experinental system in which eggs from the Aolden hamster
wera fused with invividval human or hamsier sperm, agd were followed
in their development through the first cell cycle. Thjé system allowed
us to use DNA probdg for hamster and human DNA sgquences for which
genomic distances hy kilobase pairs (kbp) were /known. Genomic
distances could be contpared to physical distances measured betwean the
sites of the probes In pronuctel. The sites were dejected by fluorescence
in silty hybddization. found that mean physjéal distances between
signals in pronuclaar chrdmati
in fibroblasts. We also for between genomic and
physical distances [rom 18\kbp up to at leaét 810 kbp. These dala
demonstrate that pronuclean chromatin is mére loosely packaged than
chromatin In somatic interhhase nuctei/ This unusual chromatin
@xpansion may be one facikr in explajhing the preponderance of
chromosome breakage events ver chromosome rejoining avents when
sperm damage sustained belord sper
first cleavage division. Work partor

National Laboratory under the auspicg
under contrac! W-7405-ENG-48,

28

DIETARY INFLUENCES/ON SPERMATOGENESIS. M.H.
Brinkworth* and Déana Anderson,\Genetic «&

  
  
    
     
      

   
    

    
   
   
  
  
   
  

fed by the Lawrence Lwermore
é of the US Department of Energy,

Currently Yhere are no widely al
animal model
nutritional /status on reproductive toxicology
This paper describes two related

PSting systems that were invdstigated
principaYiy by using a sperm morpholog}
hronic protein deficiency (8 wkeks)
ined in marmosets (Callithrix jagchus)
acute methionine~ and choline-
deprivation was investigated in F344 rats
The plarmosets lost weight and were presumakly

   
 
      
 
 

1991 EMS ABSTRACTS VW

TOze vEPTs

 

er