, 1. The language.of the warning statement
shall be precisely as prescribed by Congress
in Section 4 of the Public Health Cigarette
Smoking Act of 1969.
{Order, 1.c.1.]

  
   

Section 4 of the Cigarette Act makes no explicit reference to warning
in other languages, but does declare that a policy of the Act is
to ensure that:

the public may be adequately informed
that cigarette smoking may be hazardous
to health by inelusion of a warning to
that effect on each package of cigarettes.
{84 Stat. 87, g 2(1).-])

ELBe eests

@ It is an outrageous assertion that Spanish speaking
consumers can be adequately informed of a severe health hazard by
the inclusion of a notice ina foreign language. The Ftc should

act at once to remedy this callous disregard for human life.

Three Jegal theories come to mind. ‘he companies may have
violated the terns of the consent order; Lhe IC may seek to
reopen the consent order; or these acts constitute an independant
violation of § 5 of the FTC Act.

It will be difficult to argue that the companies have

violated the terms of the consent order, Since it provides both the
| exact wording of the health warning and an exclusive definition of
~  ‘Glear and conspicuous disclosure". However, We might say that
© the order contained an implied condition that any advertising that
was predominately in a foreign language would also contain the
health warning clearly and conspicuously translated into that
language.

tT am not certain what provisions exist in FTC practice
for reopening a consent order. Is it exclusively binding on the
parties for the future, or only binding as to facts and law on the
date that it is signed?

Finally, f think that a strong argument can be made that,
despite any language contained in the consent order, the companies
are guilty of an independant violation of § 5 by failing to display
the warning in Spanish. In other words, while the consent order ma
require disclosure of the English words, it an "infaix or deceptive
ack or practice" rer the companics not to make an additional disclos
in a compechensible Language. the remedy might call for disclosure
in two’ languages, put this could later be resolved by replacing
the old consent order.