#1240 ~ The Effects of Abminum Silicate in vivo and in vitro - W.S. Lynn
Duke University.

This proposal is only a part of the vast program under way financed by
various sources including the N.I.E.H.S.

The investigator begins with the thesis that aluminum slicate and organic
contaminants bound to it are an important cause of environmentally-induced
pulmonary injury. He proposes to study aluminum silicate because it is

an ubiquitous pollutant that avidly bind organic contaminants such as
pyrolized hydrocarbons and peroxidized lipids; is pregnt in oats, tobacco,
and prepared or processed tobacco products such as cigarettes and many
unwashed agricultural products - grains ~ cottons - flax, etc..

With CTR support he expcects to study the following questions:

a) What forms of aluminum silicate and what contaminants bound to it
in particles obtained from various sources can be isolated and characterized?

b) Which of these isolated conglomerates injure macrophages, fibroblasts,
and epithelial cells - either killing, producing sublethal inury or depressing
funtion?

c) What are the mechanism of this toxicity?

da) Do these isolated conglomerates alter intracellular communication
between leucocytes, epithelial cells and fibroblasts?

Briefly his study will be coordinated with others at Duke one of which is
concerned with obtaining aluminum silicate from whole tobacco smoke, lungs
from smokers and other sources such as grains with the intent of isolating
and characterizing the aluminum silicate and organic materials bound to it
and compare these materials with the aluminum silicate isolated from other
sources. Another investigator will test the prolonged effects in vitro

of the various isolated fractions on macrophages, fibroblasts and epithelial
cells and the third collaborator will do in vivo.

I have gone over the who protocol and I am quite sure this group can make

progress in the areas they propose to investigate. However they already

have large sums of money for related studies and will probably pursue these

proposed or related studies anyway. This proposal goes beyond the interests

of the board in the sense that the proposal is a large environmental study -
in which tobacco is only one aspect. The budget is large and I predict

would grow as time goes on year by year since three years probably would

not be sufficient to wrap up the objectives in a way that would delineate

the role of tobacco smoking independent of aluminum silicate inhalation from

sources other than tobacco.

I would deny this by giving it a rating of 5
Merit as an environmental project: B
Relevance C-

Leon O, Jacobson, M.D.

Che ik for - Sorkin, Watt, Sree, Arba, DS VEC, ar

 

50216661