“

EKAOQGT POAS

Histidine Decarboxylase Activity of Bovine Aortic Endothelium and
Intima-Media! (36914)

Turovos: M1. HoLiis axp Ltr A. RosEN
tIntraduced by A. Anthony}
Biolog. Departerent. 208 Lite Saences b, The Penasyivania State Cini ersity
Unnessity Park, Penmyliarci 10802

Mammalian L-histidine apodecarboxylase
(EC 4.11.22). hereafter referred to as histi-
dine decarboaylase (HD). is present in most
tissues (1). Activation of this system in the
micracitculation — produces the delayed.
prolonged inflammatory response (2) and
Schayer (3-5) has proposed that histamine
synthesized by this system in the microcircu-
lation constitutes a primary mechani:m of
intrinsic microcirculatory regulation. Basic to
this premise is his proposal that the princi-
pal site of HD is microcirculatory endotheli-
um, a premise which to date has not been
experimentally verified.

The present studs was undertaken to es-
amine the activity of HD in both endutheli-
um and in other components of the vascular
wall in an attempt to test this basic assump-
tion of Schayer's intrinsic microcirculatory
control hypothesis.

Methods Animals, All steers were raised
on The Pennsylvania State University-owned
farms, with sacrifice and tissue removal
being performed in the university's Meat’s
Laboratory Following sacrifice by stunning,
the thoracic aorta of each animal was re-
moved. opened longitudinally. and placed in
cold phosphate-buffered saline containing 12
mf clucose (PBS).

Endatieliat cell isolation Endothelial cells
were temaved enzymatically through inverted
luminal washing with an 0.25°% trypsin solu-
tion, A4 & 7 cm rectangular section of tissue
was removed {rom the midthoracic aorta.
fullowine which an 0.5 mnp thick intitna-me-
dia preparation was prepared Cyanoacrs fate
glue (Allen Toul Co. Philadelphia. TA).
nnnennanneneeeeenenee eee

—_—_

1 The imestication wat supported an part bs the
Lancair Counts Chaptcr at the Penns. Ivania
Heart Association PHA OS.

which produces limited cell necrosis and has
been successfully used in various surgical
procedures (6), Was used to attach the ex-
posed medial surface lo a 1? X 75 mm glass
tube. This tube was then inserted ints a22 X
00 mm glass tube containing 0 25% trypsin
(Bacto-Dilco 1:250. Difco Laboratories, De-
troit. MI) in PBS and a magnetic stirring
bar. and was brought to and maintained at
37° by means of a constant temperature
water bath setting on a magnetic stirrer. Op-
timal trypsin washing time was determined
by examining aliquots of solution at § min
intervals through phase microscopy. The
trypsin-PBS solution was changed at 15 min
intervals using capillary pipets.

Removal of small thrombi and initial en-
duthehal loosening required two, 10 min
washings. with both washings being discard-
ed. Three additional 15 min washings yielded
the majority of free endothelial cells. Subse-
quent washings produced only very low num-
bers of cells or cell fraements. Cells in each
of the three. 15 min washings were collected
by first cooling the suspension to 4° to re:
duce trypsin activity, followed by centrifuga-
tior. for 5 min at 1000g. The supernate was
discarded and the cell pellet was resuspend-
ed in | ml of Krebs- Ringer phosphate solu-
livn coniaininy 12 mAl glucose (RRP). All 3
suspensions were — pooled. centrifuged.
washed. and finally resuspended in 1.5 ml
KRP. The pellet: was rapidly frozen and
thawed to lise cells and then centrifuged at
10.00 for 20 min (3°). The supernatant.
containing the sululle enzyme (7), was
stored at --20° for subsequent enzymalic
studies Storaze never exceeded 2 wk.

Infima-media preparation, A 100% ho-
mopenate of midthuracic aortic intima-media

978

ee ne Oe REO EEE,