Ce ee EE ee oe eet

PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

This Document Subject to
Confidentiality Agreement

6. CTk-123. Evaluation of ethanol, water, ang DMSO as vehicles

for acute > toxicity st study of aerosols.
a. Rationale.

TPA aerosol is generated by; nehuliza ation of the etharivlic
solution of TPA: Therefore, it contains appreciable amount of ethanol
vepors. The exposure of animals to TPA aerosol, simultaneously exposes
these animals to ethanol vapors. [thanol may cause liver damage and may
affect lung tox icity of TPA aerosol. ‘Hence, we would like to evaluate the
subacute toxicity of ethanol and other aerosol vehicles such as water and
MSO. The results from this exper inci ti would determing whether subacute
toxicity stucies of TPA and other cheaical aerosols should be carried out.

b. Py ucedur

Thirty BCSF2/Cum feasle wice ae be expose ad to aerosol,
Goneri ted frou pure ethcnol, wtier, end Gast: tihanel for toa minutes per dey
Ter 30 cays, Thirty aniels would scrve as ce control (exposed te air cn
tix moclule) ad another set of 30 animals would serve as shelf control. JF no
Gveths tr adverse effects are observed oa the 30th day, the study will be
carried for S$) days. At the end of the study, Tifieen animals from each
grovp will be analyzed histopathologically and els. for ANH and ODS in-
duction. Blood from cach of the f ftecn anivels will be collected and

selective clinical cheristry perfor. ca by a comercial organization on

(Vet Path, Ralhwey, NO}. Examples of serum enzymes and other parameters
thet will be tested include qlyvevine oxelorctiate irinsaminase,
Oluteming phonylatenine transamimse, lacteic dehydrogenase, bilirubin,
complete blugd, count, znd bloed urea nitrogai. The data will be analyzed
in terins of subacute toxicity of ethanol, water, and DMSO. A brief
cescription af the experiment may be found in lable 14.

  

 

Table 14

Treaiimant Air Ethanol Water DESO

 

Shelf 308
Shain 30
Chemical 30 - 30 30

 

a. Numbers of animals

SF 0826222

-38-