Ware

annem beet ES

 

PHYFUSLEY SIUUIES

Contract CTR-0030

This Document Subject to
Confidentiality Agreement

D. Feasibility of Short-Term Assays Relating to Possible Tunor-
Promoting Events

CTR-111, Ornithine decarboxylase (OBC) induction aS a marker

Gf promotion of pulmonary tissue, Continuavion.

“1. Introduction.

 

This study was designed to deteriine the conditions and para-
meters of ODC induction in pulmonary tissue. Results presented in the
accompenying Progress Report demonstrate that ODC activity can be induced
in pulmonary tissue by exposure to TPh and that TPA administercd through
an eerosol provides a useful model systen for the analysis of induction of
QDC in pulmonary tissue. In addition, preliminary results presented in-
dicate that chronic exposure to whole cigaretie siioke results in slighily
clevated OM activiiy ebove machine cunirel OSC levies. This latter ob-
Servation is preliminary and is part ef an experiment which is stil] in
progress. Wicther this increase in OD activity following sioke expusure
is related to, o: indcpendent of, the abscreved incresse jn puimonory ABH
activity bas nat boen cutcrmined,

Several quiztions thai ve are addressing in these proposed
Studics ere:

1) What are the optirz? conditions for Onc induction by
cigarevte sioke (if cigarette smoke coes, in fact, induce elevated ODC
eclivity)?

2) What Tevel of ODS is induced in lurg tissue by other tobacco
related chewicals and certain tumor initiators?

3) Are induction of ODC and AHH genetically linked?

4) Can the TPA-ODC induction model system in Jung provide
useful information for characterizing inhibitors of ODC induction and
and tumor promotion in pulmonary ‘tissue?

2. CTR-111A. Mhole cigarette smoke as an inducer of ODC activity

in pulmonary tissue

 

a. Rationale.

The proposed experiments are designed to answer the following
questions and to optimize ODC. studies with cigarette smoke:

1) Do different cigarette types induce different levels
of ODC?
2) Do different smoke exposure regimens (length of ex-
posure, frequency of exposure) influence GOC activity? What are the
optimal conditions?

SF 0826210
~26. .