2 . se RE TRE teen eset

PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

Carboxyhemoglobin, hemoglobin and methemoglobin determination
will be performed for mice from eath group at monthly intervals.

h. After 13 1%, 2 and 23; years of smoke exposure, three animals
from each group will be sacrificed for determination of ODC and AHH activity.

i. During the first year, the histopathology will be determined
from the Tung, trachea, larynx, head, and any other abnormal tissue from
10% of the mice which have died. Starting the second year all of these
tissues will be examined in all mice which die. In 10% of the mice in
each group, histopathological examination of the liver, kidneys, bladder,
ovaries, uterus, heart, stomach, intestines, spleen and pancreas will be
done. if any unusual Tesions are observed in this 10.; sample; then at
the discretion of the project directors and project officer, the organs
from additional animals will be examined.

j. The following data will be taken:

(1) Survival of BC3F1/Cum mice in response to chronic
exposure to 2R1 and 3Al cigarette smoke.

(2) Incidence of selected pulmonary lesions in mice
chronically exposed to cigarette smoke (e.g. pigmented alveolar macrophage
accumulation, squamous metaplasia of the trachea).

(3) Comparison of type, incidence and latency of these
lesions for both the 2R1 and 3A1 cigarettes.

k. Data analysis:

The study will be analyzed by methods worked out in experiment
CTR-I-100 and CTR~101A. The major point to be remembered is that most
of the animals die as a result of the smoke exposure session, and not
specific smoke-associated lesions. In fact, data to date suggest that
80-90 weeks of smoke exposure results in no evidence of pulmonary cancer
(Progress Report). Therefore tumor probability can not be used to
analyze data when no tumors occur. Thus, for the first 80 weeks (and
perhaps up to 100 weeks ) of smoke exposure, data will be analyzed by
comparing the incidence of any observed lesions over four week time inter-
vals. Results wil] be tested for significance using the Mantel-Haenszel
statistic (a non-parametric version of the Chi Square Test). Smoke ex-
posure will continue until] approximately 150-200 animals remain in the
smoke. exposed or sham groups--this should occur by approximately 80-100
weeks on test. At this time, the cumulative results to date will be
analyzed and a decision made as to which type of data analysis will be re
performed. If the Mantel-Haenszel method is used, then smoke exposure
will be continued and data will be analyzed by incidence per four week
periods. If the Kaplan-Meier Test is used, then smoke exposure will be
discontinued and the remaining animals will be held and either allowed
to die or killed when moribund, necropsied and diagnosed and the data
analyzed by probability analysis.

t to |
This Document Subjec’ |
‘Confidentiality Agreeme” t . 5F 0826195