PROPOSED STUDIES

Contract CIR-0030 This Document Subject to

Confidentiality Agreement

E. Aerosol Studics

1. Introduction.

Quy earlier studies have shown thet ihe mouse can be used as an
anime] model for lung carcinogencsis. Intratracheal instillation of car-
cinogens or tobacco-related eteria}] into the lungs of different strains
of mice resulted in histopathology similar to those observed in patients
with Tung cancer.

It has been sucsested thet aerosol inhalation is biologically a
ware relevant nethdd of crug delivery than ifttretrecheal instillation.
Acrosul inheletion results in umfori distribution and ¢zeper penctration
of the chewicel when compared to intratracheal instillation. Our studies
on pulmonary dep sition of TPA cerosal (see CTR-114B, Se slannual Progress
hepcrt, April, 1979) support this view.

IGlb these cbdectives in mind, en aorasol ganerator was fabri-
cated ty Br. R. Holmberg and co-vor tiers at ORNL, end delivered to MA
for eeluciion. The cagipmont ws develop paimorily 19 gcenarate aproscls
of TPA, the active constitucnt af croton oi}, the most potent tunor- pireseter
known. This aerusel generator warns on the nebulization principle aad will:
generate aerosols of almost any chemical solubie in ethanol or water. we

Gre of the prohlems assoc ieted with duhaleiion toxicology is the
accurate ccticrmination of dose of the cheaice] to the animal after acresel
expesure. 1¢ has been reported that Tung depusition of a chemic.l is a
fuaction of 3) concentration of chemical in the ecrosal, b) perticle size
distribution of the aerosel, c) tise of exposure, d) respiratory rate,
and e) collection efficiency of the animal. Therefore, iwo parameters,
particle size distribution characteristics of the acrosol and dosinetry
siudies to define the "Tung deposition factor" (respiratory
rete x collection cificiency of the animal) have to be deiermined beferc
toxicological studies of the aerosol can be carried out.

The characterization of the aerosols of four specific chemicals
are proposed to be evaluated. Aerosol studies with TPA will continue with
spzcific emnhasis on dosimetry and particle size determinations (sec CTR-114).
Aerosol dosimetry studies with one of the major constituents of cigarette
smoke, catechol, will be initiated (see CTR-121). Aerosol of another major
constituent of tobacco and cigarette smoke, nicotine will be gencrated from
aqueous solut ‘ons using a different aerosol generator. Such endpoints as
particle size, biochemical response, and acute toxicity will be studied
(see CTR-122). BaP aerosol from OMSO:Ethanol (1:1) solution will be gen-
erated and studied for its capacity to induce biochemical response such as
ANH, ODC, and EH induction (see CTR-115). The final study proposed in this
section (CTR-123) is an evaluation of the subacute toxicity of the three
vehicles (ethanol, water, and DNSO) which will be used in generating aerosol
of these aforementioned four chenicels.

sF082625

-30-