. oe OME een mec htNEEY B ES ETE ene yee aie.
PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

 

This Document Subject to
Confidentiality Agreement

4, CTR-121, Aerosol dosimetry Studies with 3H-catechol.
@. Rationale,

Smoke dasimetry studies have allowed the determination cf
a "lung czposition tector" weich is the product of ventilation and col-
lection efficiency. Such a factor allows the estination of the amount of
a chemical deposited into the lung after co.pletion of exposure. Stroke
dosimetry studies indicated a "lung deposition factor" of 0.0025 thile
{PA aerosal dosimetry studies indicated this factor to be 0.00054.
SH-caicchal moy be delivered either as a smoke aerosol genereted from
Cigarettes lopdid with $H-catechel, or as 3iH-ceiechol aerasol gencrated
by nebulizetion of ethanolic solution of catechol. Thus acrosol dosimetry
studies with “H-catechol would be useful in determining the "lung dopusiticn
factor" and answering the question whether “lung deposition factor" for
acrasals diffe.s fre: chemical to chemical or Trom acrasal to eerosel.

Recently we studied perticle size distribution of catechol]
ROVCEG] Goacrated frou 0.2%, OF ont 7.08 solutions of catecho) in ethene}
Vo veed "tec leorore' (Pec tron Hicroseepe Supstios, Needhom Reiehte, MS
iiliers io Tieciiowie the particles of Cifitrent sizes end the aweint of
catechol oo cic filter was detocwined y Cluliod of catechol frow the
Titers wiih Lnow volume of ethanol followed by dotermination of its
concontee ied By UV Serctroplotoccter. Gur results @s tebidated below
indiceted thai ceircial ecrosel goneratce from 2% ethanolic solution

hes a imss redtan diemeter of bout 0.6 una while thed generated from

0.2% solution hes a mess median diameter of eheut 0.2 wa. If cetecho?

is exsurcd to bee aced Stand-it for TPA, it is possible that aervecal
generatcd Tram 0.28 ethanolic SH-TPA would heve ecrosal particles with
MISS MECi2h diame, of about 0.2 um. This vaiue is halt ot the value

of 0.4 um obtained for cigaretie smoke by Dr. R. Holmberg of ORNL.

This may be the largest contribyting factor respansibie for obevrving &
low "lung deposition factor" for TPA zerosol.

 

Teble 12

Particle Size Distribution of Catechol Acroso}

Catechol Percent Deposition on Filters of Size
Solution

12.8 t 0.1 149.9 +

 

SF 08262t8

-34-