PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

2. CTR-107. 3H - Thymidine labeling index (ut) i in luna, trachea,

liver, bladder, spleen or kidney after exposure to smoke. Continuation.

 

 

a. Rationale,

Results obtained in collaboration with Dr, R. Rasmussen
(University of California, Irvine, Ch) suggest that one of the effects of
exposure to 2A1 Cigarette smoke in the lung> of BC3F1/Cum mice is an in-
crease in the fraction of cells in which 3H-Thymidine (3H- TdR) has been
incorporated, i.e@., an increase in the labeling index. Increased incorpo-
ration of 3H-TdR into lung tissue has been shown previcusly to be one of
the effects cbserved after exposure to 2Al cigarette smoke (Progress
Report). The LI was shown to be higher in the lungs and bladders
of mice exposed to 2A] smoke for 30 weeks when compared to sham exposed
mice (R. Rasmussen, Progress Report #6, 1977).

As reported in the accompanying Progress Report, this
technique has been incorporated into treatment of mice at MA to observe
the LI in Jung, trachea, liver, spleen, bladder and kidney tmnediatety
after cessaticn or smoke exposure. The advantege of the LI technique is
the case with which both pulnanary and extrap:inonary tissue can be
monitored at the cellular level for altered DNA replication. It is pro-
posed that the LI will be used to moniter the tissue response after 3A]
and 2R1 cigarctte smoke is given under the reginen developed under
CTR-116 and 117, the comparative toxicity studies. The LI will be de-
termined for lung, trachea, liver spleeti, bladder and kidney after 30
and 90 days smoke exposure. If the LI can be shown to reflect a dose
response and/or discriminate between cigarette type in the two toxicity
studies, then it will be used to monitor the Tong term smoke exposure
Study scheduled for the next contract period, CTR-118.

b. Procedure.
Procedures and techniques for injecting 3y-TdR, removing
and preserving tissues, embedding and sectioning tissues, dipping and

exposing the cmulsion have been previously described. The following table
outlines these studies (Table 6).

This Document Subject to
’ Confidentiality Agreement

SF 082620!

«16-