i

PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

This Document Subject to
Confidentiality Agreement

2. CIR-82A. Characterization of ulmonary y_cytochromes involved
in_smoke- -associated MFO-induction (Dr. ~ Wang). Continuation.
a. Rationale.

_An ongoing program has been the characterization of
pulmonary MFO activity and the determination of the role of these
enzyme systems in cancer susceptibility of the Tung (see CTR- 108).
In collaboration with Dr. [. Wang (University of South Carolina,
Charleston, SC), attempts have been made to characterize the types
of P-450 cytochromes involved in MFO activity of pulmonary tissue by
ultraviolet and visible spectroscopy and ael electrophoresis patterns. pulmonary
cytochrome P-450's and comparison with the cytochrome P-450's induced from
other known inducers of pulmonary MFO activity. Animals will be treated
other known inducers of pulmonary MFO activity. Animals will be treated
according to procedures mutually agreeable to boti: Dr. Wang ard ourselves,
and micrasomes from pulmonary and hepatic tissues will be prepared.
These tissue preparations are monitored for MFO activity and total
protein end sent to Dr. Mang stored on dry ice. Results using these
tissue preparations were presented by Dr. Wang in Progress Report #7
(July 1, 1978-June 30, 1979). Data show that frozeh microsomal pre-
parations can be shipped from NA to the University of South Carolina
with very little, if any, loss of protein integrity. The various cyto-
chromes P-450's could be easily identified by 2AGE from these frozen
preparations. The hepatic microsomal preparations served as controls
for the pulmonary tissue because specific change in, these hepatic
cytochromes have been detected. Data from hepatic Lissue microsomes
were just as expected; that is, treatment of the AHH inducible C57BL/6
and C3H/Anf strains of mice with 3-methylcholanthrene or B-napthy] flavone
resulied in the formation of high AHH activity and also a 53,000
molecular weight protein bond; similar treatment of the AHH non-responsive
DBA/2 strain resulted in no AHH induction and no new protein bond; TCDD-
pretreatment caused induction of AHH activity in al] three strains and
a concomitant production of this 53,000 molecular weight protein band,
Attempts at finding these same protein band in pulmonary tissue from
these same mice were unsucessful. Either the microsomal preparati ons
had little, if any, new cytochromes, or the PAGE technique is not
sensitive enough to detect these differences. New microsomal preparations
from pulmonary tissue from C57BL/6 and D3A/2 mice treated either IT or
IP with high doses of TCDD have been sent to Dr. Wang but PAGE anatysis
of these preparations have not been completed. Even though no distinct
protein changes have been observed to date, Dr. Wang has repor ted that
the carbon monoxide binding spectrum of pulmonary tissue is quite
different. from hepatic tissue. The question that now must be addressed
is the effect of HFO-induction on this spectrum.

b. Procedure.

it was proposed last year to monitor the effects of whole
cigarette smoke on pulmonary cytochrome P-450's. Because no change has
been observed in the PASE profiles of these cytochromes, even under con-
ditions where MFO induction has occurred, these studies were not initiated.

-21- SF 0826206