PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

This Document Subject to
- “Confidentiality Agreement

I. CHRONIC INHALATION STUDIES
A. Introduction.

The chronic inhalation studies are designed to determine if there
are any biological effects which occur in inbred strains of mice during
Tong term exposure to whole cigarette smok.. Data to date Suggest that
Cigarette smoke possesses weak biological activity in humans. Because of
this low biological potential and because of the conditions under which
man is exposed to cigarette smoke, it is a necessary requirement that any
smoke exposure study use: a) conditions whereby the smoke deposition and
distribution parallels that of human smokers, b) a length of time of ex-
posure which parellels that of human smokers, c) an animal model which
is capable of expressing those types of biological lesions associated with
cigarette smoking in humans and d) a number of animals Sufficient to arrive
at a significant conclusion. .

A murine model for lung carcinogenesis has been developed at MA,
along with techniques and procedures for quantitative smoke exposure studies
which have taken into account the above requirements. Examples of the
experimental considerations of such experiments for the long term studies
are:

1. Estimated “natural” lifetime of the animals.

Experiments are scheduled so that mice are exposed to smoke for
their "lifetime". Data to date for untreated BC3F1/Cum female mice indicate
about 402 of the mice died due to “natural" causes by 104 weeks. Therefore
smoke exposure studies would have to be carried out for at least 100-120
weeks in order for the mice to be exposed for their average "lifetime",

2. Numbers of mice required under test conditions in order to

ensure that there is significant number of animals present during the
time when lung lesions may be expected.

Data from CTR-100 and 101 show that 50% of the BC3F1/Cum mice
exposed to smoke or sham exposed on the SEN.TI are alive after 45-50 weeks
of exposure. Previous estimates Suggested that 2000 mice be placed on test
initially in order to Statistically evaluate the results. After analysis
of CTR-100 (see Progress Report), methods have been employed which allow
all animals in the experiment to be available for statistical consideration
and which allow evaluation of trends of the pulmonary lesions observed in.
Specified time intervals. The result of these analyses is that we now
estimate that 1000 animals will be required initially for a long term study.

3. An estimate of the incidence and latency of lung lesions which
may occur,

Data to date from CTR-109 (Progress Report) indicate that no
pulmonary tumors were observed in BC3F1/Cum mice after exposure to 2Al
cigarette smoke for approximately 70 weeks. For a "lifetime" study,

SF 0826186