PROPOSED STUDIES . | ;
fontract cTR-0030 This Document Subject to

‘Confidentiality Agreement $F,0826203

3. CTR-108. Effect of cigarette smoke on pulmonary mixed-

function oxidases. Continuation.

a. Rationale.

Monitoring pulmonary mixed-function oxidases (MFO) following
exposure of lung tissue to environmental ly-imporatant chethicals is a very
important capability. Reasons for this importance are as follows;

- Approximately 60% of the known chemical carcinogens
require some form of metabolic activation in order to be
biologically active.

~ The microsomal MFO's are the major metabolizing system

for these chemical carcinogens.

~ Levels of pulmonary KIO seem to play a,major role in
detcrmining susceptibility to chemical ly-induced lung cancers.
- Alterations in these enzyme systems are observed following
exposure to IT-instilled chemicals, aerosol administered
chemicals, or complex aercsols such as cigarette smoke.

- These alterations can be easily detected using such
chcmicals as BoP, ethoxyresorurin, methoxyresorufin, or
propoxy’ esorufin as substrates for MFO activity.

- Using these substrates, the KPO activity observed following
exposure to cigarette smoke is different from that observed
following exposure to chemicals such as MCA or BaP in that
peak activity is observed earlier (approximately 6 hours )

and the induced, activity remains at a high level for extende
periods of time (> 24 hours).

The major questions to be addressed are; 1) what are the reasons for the
different kinetics of smoke induced pulmonary MFO activity, and 2) could
these changes in MFO activity play a role in determining susceptibility

to smoke-associated Tung cancers.

Characterization of pulmonary MEO activity is proposed to
continue during this funding period by analyzing the relationship between
smoke deposition and MFO activity (see CTR-119), by analyzing if differences
exist in MFO-induction kinetics following exposure to different cigarettes
or to different smoke exposure regimens isee CTR-116 and 117), by analyzing
the long term effects of smoke exposure on the enzynies (see CTR-118), and
comparisons of kinetics of MFO-induction following IT or aerosol adminis-
tered chemical treatment (see CTR- 115 ). Continuation of studies designed
to characterize the pulmonary cytochromes induced by exposure to whole ciga-

rette smoke is also proposed (see CTR-B2A).
b. Procedure.
Standard assays for BaP-metabolism, and use of the substrates

ethoxyresorufin, methoxyresorufin, and propoxyresorufin have been developed.
The use of the latter three chemicals will be important because these

-1R-