PROPOSED STUDIES .
Contract CTR-0039 This Document Subject to

Confidentiality Agreement

b. Nicotine sulfate.

The design of the experiment is similar to that previously
described for the TPA studies. Mice wit? be exposed to several con-
centrations of nicotine sulfate as described under CIR-122 and ODOC ard Anki
levels will be assayed in the lungs at 3, 6, 9, 24 and 48 hours in five
nicotine exposed and five solvent exposé. control mice per time point.

4. CTR-111C. Relationship between the genetic control of Alls and
one ectivities.

a. Rationale.

ODC induction occurs as the result of exposure to chemicals
thet cause gene(s) activation. TPA ts an example of a chemical that causes
non-specific gene eclivetion (and induction of ODC), but docs not inducc
AY activity. MCA, however, cavces specific gene activations (e.g. the
fh locus), end does cause tie diiuction of both OVC and AH activity.

There is Ux possibility that bea induces ODS by virtue of the voct that
this cazyme is an obligste step ih synthesis of Ant. Therefore, ODC in-
duction by MCA coulc result from either the specific activation of AHR cents,
or ectivation of the genesresponsible for the “promotion-activiiy" of this
chemical. Thus, the mechanisii of QDe induction by TPA way be quite adiffercnt
from the nechanisin of GDC incuction by HCA.

To determine the nature of these differences, two specific
cppreaches are proposed. Gne, anclysis of the kinetics of OLC induction
following TPA cr BCA treatment in specific recombinant inbred (R1) lines
that have been selectcd becouse of their AHH responsiveness ; two, deterni-

“wination ef the degree of TPA induced ODC in at least 10-15 different in-
bred strains of mice. The first study was to be completed during this
years funding. However the characterization of ONC induction fol lowing
aerosol generation of TPA required more time than originally proposed

and the lack of availablilty of these RI Tines, necessitated a delay cf
initiation of these studies. Sufficient numbers of animals of each of the
R} lines will be bred at MA for these studies.

b. Procedurcs.

A total of 50 animals from cach of 10 RI lines (5 AHH in-
ducible and 5 AHH non-inducible) and 25 animals from each of 10-15 different
inbred strains of mice will be used. These animals will be exposed to cither
1T-instilled MCA or aerosol-generated TPA and at 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24 and
48 hours later, the lungs and liver will be removed and stored at -70°C.
These tissues will then be assayed for AHH activity and ODC activity using
our previously described procedures. The various inbred strains will not
be treated with MCA, but rather just exposed to aerosol-TPA because the
. AHH responsiveness of these strains are already known.

SF 08262!2

~27J6