PROPOSED STUDIES

Contract CTAOON This Document Subject to

Confidentiality Agreement

 

5. CTH-V1D. characterization of pulmonery ODe induction in
inbred strains oy mice.

a. Raticnalc.

Characterization of nulmonary ODC an the inbred strains of
mice (1s proposes in order to establish an 4nitiation and pr motion (to-
stace) carcinogenesis model syster where pulmonary carcinomas are the tumor
endpoint. This model system would be analogous to the two-stage syst
historically uscd fur epidermal tissue. Data to date (sec Progress ‘eport)
indicate that pulmonary ONG is inducod after exposure to a known cpidernal
onc ingucer (TPA). Lvigence has pean presentec to support the dea thet
GUS induction is @n oblige te step in epidermal tumor promotion by TPA
(Bowed). BR. Ess 1977, In. Origins of Human Cancer, Eds. Hiatt, Watson.
and Wanstor, VP 773). Khaya tues prema tors of shin carcinogenesis induce
; iceis fail to induce this enzyue.

    
  
  
    

    
  

 

    

cuit Plo aat week or none presage ig cis
Vi Cee ee TN seils sual es the noids, haye been shown to
hi. ree; hath 4 wal OF Tit a inibitors of epiderss

} = bind i
dUusays. promt ed by Gre eer, Ro des Mat') Can, Inst., PP 6675
Bollag, Uae 19/2, Fur. a Verna, A. Ke ch ale 1979, Cen.
hese. 39, pp 415).

 

 

This we propose Ue Lest whethar pulmonary one is regulated
tne Similar Gener es enidermal Gbe. Pulmaraey GDS induction will be
cralwadicd efter exposure to phorbol, & none indzcer in epidermal tissue, and
after cxpesuic to reiingic acia, en anhibitar of TPA-ODE induction in cpidermil
tissue,

 

bh, Procedure.

RCSF U/Cun mice will be oxposea to acrosal ized TPA as pre~
viously described. Phorbol will be aerosolized at the same concentré Lions

as TPA ina similar manner (see CTR-114) and pulmonary ope activity dete. mined
Retinvic acids 13-cis-retinoic acid, (hotin inhibitors of epidermal Onc ard
the trincthyliydrexypheny! annlag of ettyiretinoate {a non-inhibitor of
epideriial O02) will be tested for toxicity after intratracheal inoculation

jn gel-saline. Epidernial doses of retinoids of 1/10 the dose of TPA were
effective in inhibiting 7PA-induced ODC and thus the dose range for in-
hibiting pulmonary ODC will be between 10-100 nanogralis . (Verma, A. K.,

et als 1979, Can. Res.» 39> PP 419).

The retinoid which results an theleast toxicity will be
used to inhibit TPA-induced ODC activity. An example of a protocol using
retinoic acid is given in Table 11 . If inhibition is shown to occur, the
trimethyl hyroxypheny! analog of ethytretinoate will be used as a negative
control for inhibition and will be given at the appropriate times.

SF 0826293

~28-