Contract CTR-0030

E. CTR-118. Chronic exposure of BC3F1/Cuin mice to 2R1 and 3Al
cigdrette smoke.

 

1. Rationale.

This study represents the second long term evaluation of
the potential biological effects of whole cigarette smoke in a mouse
model system. This approach is different from that originally suggested
in our proposed studies of last year, in that change of cigarette typo
rather than change of the mouse strain is now proposed. Reasons for not
evaluating the C3H strain at this time are based on the following.
Preliminary observations using the C3H strain suggest that the C3H strain
is more sensitive to the toxic effects of whole cigarette smoke and
perhaps more sensitive to the stress associated with the method of smoke
exposure (see Progress Report). Problems with nose-bleeding was observed
in this strain even when smoke exposure was short term (e.g. €60 days).
Potential problems that may appear during long term exposure are not
known at this time.

The suggestion of analyzing the effects of two. different
cigarettes results from the fact that quite different biological
responses have been observed following exposure to high nicotine compared
to low nicotine cigarettes. Data from CTR-100 (see Progress Report)
showed that exposure to 2A1 low nicotine cigarette smoke resulted in:

(a) little smoke-associated toxicity so that TPM levels of 1.0 mg/day
could be given, (b) no pulmonary tumors, but some evidence of squamous
metaplasia of the trachea after 60-90 weeks of exposure, and (c)
significant inhibition of the DNA-repair capacity of pulmonary tissue
after «3 months exposure. On the other hand, data from CTR-101 (see
Progress Report) Suggest that exposure to 2R1 cigarette smoke resulted
in: a) smoke-associated toxicity so that TPM levels of only 0.2-0.4 ing/
day could be given, b) no pulmonary tumors and no changes in the trachea
by 44 weeks exposure, and c) no inhibition of DNA-repair capacity of
pulmonary tissue, even after 30 weeks exposure. Three additional reasons
Suggest that a comparison of the biological effects of a low nicatine

and high nicotine cigarette is in order. One, no long term assay with
the low nicotine cigarette has been completed (CTR-100 was on test only |
to ~70 weeks). Two, there were some problems with high initial toxicity
in the 2R1 study (CTR-101) and thus this assay should be repeated. Three,
the simultaneous assay of both cigarettes requires only one set of sham
and shelf control animals. The 3Al cigarette is proposed for use as a
low nicotine reference cigarette because it is quite similar to the 2A
cigarette in its physical and chemical properties and unlike the 2Al
cigarette, sufficient numbers of 3Al cigarettes are available for com-
pletion of a long term study.

This Document Subject to

Confidentiality Agreement SF 0826193

-B-