PROPOSED STUDIES,
Contract CTR-0030
This Document Subject to
‘Confidentiality Aereement

2. CTR-105. Comparative evaluation of deposition after exposure
£0 B-raphthylamine orcatechol in a smoke acrosol. Continuation.

 

 

 

a. Rationale.

Previous studies have examined the physiologic response
in the mouse to nanogram quantities of BaP, SCA, nicotine and dotriacontane
(DTC) when aerosolized in cigarette smoke. All are constituents of smoke
with the exception of MCA, These specific chemicals are all found with
the particulate phase of smoke and represent, respectively, the polycyclic
aromatic hydrocarbons, the tobacco alkaloids and an inert particulate
constitucnt of tobacco smoke. BaP, NCA and nicotine were shown in these
studies to be rapidly cleared (ts <2 hours) from the lung, while DIC was
retained at significant levels up to a week post exposure. These three
tobacco smoke constituents represent only a small fraction (0.1%) of the
chemicals found in the total particulate matter (TPi) of smoke. There are
many chemicals which have been found in smoke ahd which may be capable
of exerting a biological effert. For example, catechol is present in fairly
high concentrations (220-559 ug/cigarette) ox» B-naphthylamine (22 ng/cigarette)
Veisburger, J. L., et al., (Origins of Human Cancer, Ed. Hiatt, Watson,
Winsten, Cold Spring | Laborat tory, 573-574, 1977). The question which is
posed is whether these two chemicals are retained in the lung. Dosimetry
Studies using radioactively labeled B-naphthylamine and catechol will be
carried out so as to determine the conditions of retention and clearance
from the lung and whole bo¢y. As described in the accompnying Progress
Report, ‘radiouctively labeled catechol has been sythesized at MA and loaded
into 2R1 cigarettes. Data show that approximately 10-15% of catechol added
to a cigarette can be found associated with the TPM collected on a Cambridge
filter pad.

The dosimetry and distribution studies with these radiodctive
labeled cigarettes will be scheduled. Catechol has the additional advantage
for dosimetry studies in that of the available known whole,smake components,
it is one of the few components soluble in ethanol and therefore, amenable
to aerosol generaticn (see Progress Report). The details of the dosimetry

study with aerosol generated catechol will be given in CTR-121. The quanti-
tative deposi tion and distribution studies will be compared for catechol
generated in a smoke aerosol and catechol generated in a chemical aerosol
with regard to the efficiencies for deposition dnd the residence time or
clearance from the lung (also see CTR-121).

b. Procedure.

BC3F 1/Cuin female mice (8-12 weeks old) will be adapted
to smoke on the Walton Smoking Machine using standard procedures (10%
smoke concentration, 30 seconds smoke exposure alternating with 30 seconds
purge air per puff for a total of 10 minutes). Exposure to smoke wil] con-
tinue for one month before the dosimetry study. Labeled 3A1 cigarettes
will be prepared using the cigarette lable injector machine described

previously.

SF 0826198 »