PROPOSED STUDIES
Contract CTR-0030

This Document Subject to
Confidentiality Agreement

exposure would have to be carried out for 100-120 weeks. This is the time
during which pulmonary tumors would be expected to occur, although the in-
cidence of those lesions would be expected to be Tow. However, a 25
difference between the smoke exposed and sham controls can be distinguished
with the 300 mice we estimate will be alive at the time at which tumors

start to appear, Should the difference between the smoke exposed and sham
exposed groups be as much as 20%, 50 animals would be required. A discussion
of methods of data analysis is given in the Progress Report.

4. The type and dose of cigarette employed.

The first inhalation study (CTR-100, see Progress Report)
employed the 2Al reference cigarette (40 mg TPM/cigarette, 0.5 mg nicotine/
cigarette), at a dose of approximately 1 mg TPM/day/mouse. It has been
suggested that the biological activity of tobacco smoke in humans is in-
fluenced not only by high TPM levels of a cigarette but is closely corre-
tated with high nicotine levels. Thus tong term studies uSing both the 2R1
cigarette (~50 mg TPM/cigarette, 2.81 mg nicotine/cigarette) (CTR-101,
Progress Report), and the high TP, low nicotine 3Al cigarette (~43 mg TPM/
cigarette, 0.3 mg nicotine/cigarette) are proposed (sce CTR-118). Mice are
quite susceptible to the toxic effects of nicotine and thus the TPM dose per
day is dependent upon exposure regimens which results in low toxicity. Ex-
posure regimens which differ from those used in CTR-100 and 101 will be
investigated for their efficacy in allowing the highest deposition of TPM
to occur with the lowest toxicity. The distribution of TPri within the
respiratory tract of the mouse has been determined (see Progress Report)
after exposure to smoke generated cn the equipment at the inhalation facility.
Using a radioactive tracer for the TPM of smoke, it was shown that deposition
occurred primarily along the bronchi and bronchioles, with little penetration .
of the alveolar spaces of the lung. This is similar to what is thought to
occur jn humans. ‘

5. Equipment and capacity for smoke exposure.

The present inhalation equipment consists of the SEM 1] B for
smoke exposure and the SEM II C for sham exposure. Four 120 minute ex-
posure sessions per day limit the number of animals per day which can be
exposed to smoke to approximately 1920 animals. The proposed studies
require 2900 animals to be exposed. To maximize efficiency of the exposure
laboratory and permit bioassay of two cigarette types (see CTR-118), the
following changes are proposed:

a. Use of both SEM II 8 and C machines exclusively for smoke
exposure.

b. Development of an alternate exposure system for sham ex-
posure that does not utilize either SEM.

c. Increase of smoke exposure sessions to four 120 minute
sessions per day.

SF 0826187

-2-