This Document Subject 10
* Confidentiality Agreement

SCHEDULE B - EQUIPMENT JUSTIFICATION

7, Nitrogen Detector for Gas Chromatograph $ 1,700

Methods for monitoring animals in order to document smoke
exposure without sacrificing the animals are limited to those techniques
in which blood or urine is analyzed. Levels of nicctine in the urine
have been detected after smoke exposure in the inbred strains of mice,
using gas chror-tography and reported in the Progress Report. ‘licotine
is found with the particulate phase of cigarette smoke and thus its presence
in the urine may be related to total particulate deposition in the mouse.
Routine monitoring of the level of exposure to gas phase constituents has
been done for the last two years by measuring carboxyhemoglobin levels
in blood samples. Thus, it would be desirable to set up routine monitoring

of urine.

The nitrogen detector for the gas chromatograph would increase the
levels of sensitivity for nicotine detection 50 to 190 fold over the flame-
fonization detector. Nicotine essays now are analyzed on pooled urine
samples from 20-49 individual mice. With an increase in sensitivity of
detection, it is possible that fewer mice (and a smaller urine sample )
could be analyzed after smoke exposure. The dose of TPii and nicotine
content of the TPM would be correlated with the amount of nicotine in the

urine,

2, Small Animal Isolators, Model 669 (2 % £3395) - $ 6799
Model 12 Portable Animal Bedding Disposal Cabinet - $ 2095

The safe handling and disposal of potentially hazardous chemicais
is of concern to this department and MA. Experiments performed at “A under
the auspices of CTR have not utilized chemicals which are recognized as
potential hazards to humans by NIH. However, as of June, 1979, IHEW guide-
lines have changed to include the chemicals given in the attached list
(Appendix A). Recent site visits\by such groups as the American Association
of Laboratory Animal Science (AALAS) (who accreditates our anima}
facilities) and the NCI Safety Committee (who monitors safety procedures
of ongoing and prospective contractors) have pointed out that any work
with any of these chemicals must be handled using very well-defined pre-
cautionary procedures. ‘A niet or exceeded all these requirements except
for a potential problem with particulates or aerosals which may he formed
during cage changing, removal of bedding or manipulation of animals during
the time at which they are being treated with a potentially hazardous chem-
ical. Subsequent discourse with Or. W. Pryor (Head of Veterinary Medicine
at MA) and AALAS representatives has suggested the following procedures
for the safe handling of chemically-treated animals.

a. While treated with a given chemical and for 1.9 months following
these treatments, these animals will be housed in disposable cages equipped
with filter tops.

b. These cages will reside within a small animal isolator which
provides a negative flow of air across the cages fe.i. air will be taken
from the room, over the cages and any particulates will be entrapped in a
Class I containment system),

SF 0826226

~42-