REGISTRATION POLICIES - Stringent hotel requirements make it
necessary that you register in advance for this convention.
Deadlines for registration are printed on the forms which
accompany this letter. Registration fees include tickets to
all convention events except golf. NOTICE THAT YOU CAN

SAVE MONEY BY REGISTERING EARLY!

HOTEL RESERVATIONS -— Please make hotel reservations directly
with Fountainhead Resort Hotel using the attached form.

The hotel's cut-off date for room reservations is April 3.
At that time the hotel will release the block of rooms they
are holding for us to the public, and reservations will be
on a space-available basis. Make your reservations early

to be certain you get the accommodations you desire.

MINI-TRADE SHOW - Friday afternoon from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.

many manufacturers and brokers will offer "one-day specials”
or display their new products at the association's mini-
trade show. Entry forms for the trade show have been sent

to local brokers and manufacturers. Please call us if you
have not received an entry form. Exhibitors and buyers

must be registered for the convention in order to participate.

HOSPITALITY SUITES - The hotel is holding three suites
for those brokers and manufacturers who desire to have
hospitality suites. We ask that you limit the hours in
which you hold an open house to those times when convention
events are not in session, so that we are not competing for
attendance.

Hours which will fit into this year's schedule include:

Thursday, May 3 - 8 p.m. to ?
Friday, May 4 - 5 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Saturday, May 5 - 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. (for non-golfers)

Reservations for hospitality suites should be made by calling
the hotel at 1-800-345-6343. Please let the association
office know that you plan to have a suite so that we can
publicize it at the registration desk for you.

GOLF TOURNAMENT - Once again the golf tournament will be
played for the benefit of OATCD-PAC - the association's
political action fund. Details can be found on the golf
registration form. PLEASE BE CERTAIN THAT YOU WRITE A
PERSONAL CHECK TO OATCD-PAC FOR THIS EVENT! NO CORPORATE
CHECKS CAN BE ACCEPTED.

If you have questions about the convention, please feel
free to contact Mary Thurber at (303) 755-4049 or (303)
831-1857. If you would like to participate in the
convention by placing an.ad in the convention program or by
co-sponsoring an event, and we have not contacted you,
please call us!

TIOK 0021099