alieleitinctien hina y

   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

Asratcan Jovanas or Eripemoocr Vol 106, No. 4

 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 

 

mn 23

Copyright € 1977,by The Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health Praned n USA.
. that p
LUNG FUNCTION, RESPIRATORY DISEASE, AND SMOKING IN FAMILIES" ' ples s
vey arly (
| ‘ RSF. SCHILLING, A.D.-LETAI, S.L. HUI, GJ. BECK, J.B. SCHOENBERG ann A. BOUHUYS The
io“ 7 howev
Schilling, R. S.F., A. 0. Letal, S. L. Hui, G. J. Beck, J.B. Bchoanberg and A. rental
Bovhuys (Yale U. Lung Research Center, New Haven, CT 08510). Lung func- sympt
‘ tion, respiratory disease, and smoking in familios. Am J Epidemiof 106: 274- juste
‘ 283, 1977. , tween
Respiratory symptoms, disease and lung function were studied In 376 parent
families with 616 children who participsted in 6 survey in throe USA towns. on chi
Parental smoking had no effect on children’s symptoms and lung function. rent
‘ Also, there was no evidence that passive smoking effected althor lung func- pa .
tion or symptoms of adults. There was no actociation between prevalence of ratory
sell-reported cough and/or phiegm In parents and their children. There wos a direct
highly significant association between the prevalence of whaoze tn parents ing ad:
and their younger children, for whom parents reported thie eymptom. Wheoze and th
in children was also significantly associated with a parental history of Alli
asthma, end tung function was tower in ehildron with o fomily history of sympt
asthma. Even after secounting for height, weight, age. gex and race, chil- This 1
dren‘s lung function correlated significantly with parents’ tung function. How- smoke
ever, the contribution of familial factors (i.9., paronte’ tung function, smoking, more ¢
and history of asthma) to children’s tung function is omall compared te the Parent
effects of height, weight and age. own 8)
asthma; family characteristics; lung volume moosuroments; amoking oe
We investigated the contribution of fam- symptoms and disease. Subjects were also omnoki
ilial factors, including smoking by par- given lung function tests measuring forced than :
ents, to lung function and respiratory vital capacity (FVC;, one second forced ex- the pr
symptoms in children. The study isa part piratory volume (FEV, ), peak expiratory smokin
of a population study in three towns inthe flow rate (PEF) and maximum expiratory ses
United States in which members of fami- flow at 50 per cent of FVC (MEF50%) and Fam
lies were questioned about respiratory at 25 per cent of FVC (MEF25%). apart {
Children of smoking parents may suffer ;
Received fer oublication Morch 21, 1977, and in unduly from respiratory disease. For ex- SEX ant
final form June 12, 1977. le. in’ *moth h heh accordi
Abbreviauons: FEV, o. forced expiratory volume amp le, infants of mothers who smoke ave Now ix
in first second of forced expiration: FVC. forced expi- significantly more attacks of bronchitis with
ratory vital capacity; MEFS0% and MEF 4m and pneumonia than infants of nonsmok- this BP
stantaneous maximum expiratory flow rates at a a : 1
and 25% of FVC. respectively, measured from re ‘AB mothers (1). Also, children of smoking their h
cordings of maximum expiratory flow volume parents who may or may not have symp- signifi
(MEFV) curves: Per peak expiratory flon rate, toms themselves have more bronchitis and of bres
‘From the Yale University Lun BeOTC ne : . .
ter, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven. cT 06810. (Re. Pheumonia during their first year of life was no
print requeste to Dr. Bouhuss Grant HL14178 than children of nonsmoking parents (2), flow ar
upported an part by rant HL-14179 but this was not true during four subse- ra
'01-HR- 4 res
SCOR Program! and Conta eo ae (2012from  uent years of follow-up. Nevertheless, the Te
The authors thank Dr. Charter Mitchell for his older children may have an increased inci- adjuste:
part tn reaming tne jPrpulation eureey. js. dence of acute respiratory disease in cantly 1
eather? ding tor te neal Assis te. an rr. .
Millicent Higgins ond Mins doan Walford for value. homes where cigarettes are smoked (3, 4). childrer
ble criticusms of a draft manuscript. These studies have led to the conclusion

even be