FF Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middie): LEE. SQON-YOUL

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators, Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

POSITION TITLE
Postdoctoral Fellow

    
     
  

 

 
   
    

NAME
Soon-Youl Lee

   
   

agin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.

YEAR
DEGREE CONFERRED

1983
1994

 
   
        
   
     

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION
Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea

FIELD OF STUDY
Chemistry
Microbiology

   

University of California at Davis, California

RESEARCH AND/OR PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list in chronological order previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnal include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key
Personnel typically will include all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or

ccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development ar execution of the project. Include present membership on any
Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references to all publications during the past
three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Professional Experience:

1983 Research Assistant, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
Seoul, Korea

1983-1987 Researcher, Mogam Biotechnology Research Institute, Seoul, Korea

1991-1994 Ph.D. Student, Department of Food Science and Technology
University of California at Davis, California

1992 Teaching Assistant, Recombinant DNA (Lab course for Graduate Students)
Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis

1994-present Postdoctoral Fellow, Palo Alto Medical Foundation Research Institute
Palo Alto, California

Hon n

1986 Mogam Research Award

1991 The Korean Honor Scholarship

1992 University of California Regent's Fellowship

1992 Jastro-Shields Graduate Research Award

1993 Jastro-Shields Graduate Research Award

Bibliography:

Lee J-H, Lee S-Y, Kim K-H. 1985. Detection of HBV DNA in serum by Hybridization Technique. Journal of
Korean Society of Virology. 15:1-5.

Lee S-Y. and Price CW. 1993, The min CD locus of Bacillus subtilis lacks the min E determinant that
provides topological specificity to cell division. Mol. Micro, 7:601- 610.

Lee S-Y, Boylan, S., Price, C.W. Sugar transport gene in Bacillus subtilis is controlled by stress-induced
transcription factor dB (in preparation).