MEMO FOR WARREN & CO.

Chief Justice Earl Warren's commission investigating:
the Kennedy, assassination began work yesterday.
Comments Rep. Louis C. Wyman (R-Ni H.): “It is in.

—— teresting to note the Chief Justice

os \ is now leoking into matters in-

5 i) volving Communist affiliations [of
Lee: H. Oswald, the President’s
killer).. Letius hope:no [pro-Com-
munist} decisions of the high

‘| court: will prove to. be roadblocks:
'4) to:the inquiry,”

a Let us hope so indeed: _

_. To aid Justice Warren: and
his colleagues, we'd like to quote
at some length from a letter by
/ the well-known novelist Taylor
ee ee - Galdvrell to ihe Wanderer, a na-

, tional Catholic: weekly published:
Taylor Caldwell = at St. Paul, Minn.

Called. most kindly to: our attention by. New York's
Conservative Party, the letter was printed in-The Wan-
derer's Oct. $1,, 1963, issue, weeka before the President
was murdered:

oss Treceive hundreds of letters a year from all over
the world, even from behind the Iron Curtain, from fans :of
mine. Lately the letters are full of disquiet, a sense of ‘dis-.
aster near‘at hand... human instinct is stirring in fear:
everywhere...

he enemies of freedom and! God are: everywhere in

every country of the West. It is possible that Mr, Kennedy

is:in personal jeopardy from them... Indeed, it ig very:

probable. Presidents have been murdered before in our his-

~..flory,.anc in: less dreadful times. Among. our enemies there:
are many madmen.

T receive quite a number of pro-Communist and “libera!'"’
periodicals; and! some are quite inflammatory... seme of
our big: monthly magazines, for instance—are: wrathful.
against our President,

It: seems that. they had expected! him to overthrow. the:
Constitution and set up a sort of crypto-Communist dictator-
ship. (They call it “progress.”) Hae:has disappointed 'them,,
and there is.no: canard! too mean for them to print and no
sneer too ugly for. some of their pages. His parents, his
wife, his. children, his brothers and: sisters, are held up to
ridicule in a lot of the “liberal” and pro-Communist press.
.-.. As that part of our: national press is influenced from
Moscow itis easy to see the temper ‘of many of them, And
tha: temper ca easily inflame madmen...

The: mere vhought of Mr. Kennedy being assassinated
should make alliof us shudder...

Then there are the “agents provocateur” who would just
love such an “incident.” I know, I read some of their. litera~
ture. Iti would delight them—and serve their evil purpose—
if harm icame'to: Mr. Kennedy, I have already. sent a.sample
to the Department of Justice; it actually euggestsd that our
President be lynched!

It is to be hoped that the Caldwell letter, among other
factors, will impel the: Warren commission to look: deeply
into the:Communist aspect of the assassination, and to re-
sist the attempts of such persons.as Sen. J.. W.. Fulbright
(D-Ark:) to shift. the blame to the so-called! radical right
hate groups. Whatever else Oswald was, he didn’t belong:
to the John: Birch: Society—a fact which. should carry. its
proper. weight with the Warren commission.

AND NOW, ABOUT CUBA

The United Nations Security Council, with all 11 mem
ber nations fearlessly voting. Aye; adopts a resolution call-
inig for a worldwide arms.embargo. against: South. Africa
because of its: apartheid—discrimination against Negroes.

We'll' second the: resolution: enthusiastically.. Apar-
theid in some of: its aspects. would shock. many'a diehard

: ° U.S. segregationist and white supremacist.
Apartheid ; And now, how: about U..S: UN Am-
Castroism: »assador' Adlai Stevenson introducing a

similar resolution calling for a worldwide
arms embargo against Castro-Khrushchev Cuba?’

Castro outdoes South Africa in discriminating against
Cubans ;and he.is trying to export! his Communism to main-
land! Latiri America: to: boot.

Why. not get up our courage to:the point of demanding
that the whole UN move into this affair, insteadiof leaving
it to the Organization of American States?

CONGRATS, CIGGY MEN -
{ Well, the American:Cancer Society. and the New. York
' State Department of Health are in again, with a.stepped-up
drive against cigarets as alleged causes of lung cancer and
. other ‘ills.

Statisticians, We should think the elgaret -
‘hd i makers would be overjoyed, inas-
Forward March much. as these acare campaigns

up to now ‘seem only to have stimulated cigaret sales:
This latest attack ia. based on tired old statistics—co-
incidences collected and alleged to prove a case—and there

~~ is no Jaligratory, proof that cigaret smoking: ever. gave

  
   

-

ae

» 1963

DAILY NEWS December 6

€999C0ST0e

     
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
    
  
  
  

lung eancer or any other serious disease to anybody.