4

C

These localized sto
news service.

Martinsville, Indiana
November 21, 1961

ries were distributedi to

Y5p/

various. newspapers. by a private

Ve
0
NEWS -LEADER O39

Springfield, Missourl'
November 19, 1941

“5 fr ¥

Relatively unpolluted ar may ve = County Records an Increase
county favorable lung cancer rate

Just. how: much of a problem
lung cancer is in Morgan County,
compared to what it is in other

- areas, is brought outi in a new

report by. the U. §. Public Health
Service.

The report sppears at a time
when considerable attention is
being given: to the possibility. that
air pollution: is the. cause of much
of the lung. cancer that has been

ylung. cancer. Meanwhile, muniei-
palities in many: parts of the coun
try have passedi ordinances seek:
ing to reduce the amount. ofi air
pollutian.

Not: that cigarette smoking has
been given any. clean bill of health.
The national Cancer Institute
maintains thati the besti insurance
lagainst. getting: the disease: is: to
retrain from: smoking:.

It points out that the: ailment

chargedi against cigarette smoking.
According to the official ind: has. become the leading cause oi

ings, there were 35: deaths from
cancer ofall types among residents
of Morgan: County in the year end-
ing January, 1960.

Of the 35, however, lung can-
cer was responsible for only 3, or:
8.6 per cent. of the total.

Generally; thraughout the United
States, lung cancer amounted to
14.4 per cent of the overall. can-
cer mortality;. and, in the State
of Indiana, to 13.7 per cent..

Whether or not. cigarette smok-
ing is a major or minor cause
of lung cancer, there is evidence
that! points: to air pollution as a
lung irritant) and an important
malefactor.

Air Pollution

Benzyprene, which is also found!
in cigarette smoke, is an airborne
pollutant. that is under. suspicion.
It comes from the smokestacks: ofi
factories:and homes and from the
exhausts of automobiles.

Research: studies are under way
to. determine whether: there is a
cause and effect relationship be-
tween such industriali smog and

cancer death: among men.
number of male deaths attributed
‘to it has multiplied six times in
the past 20 years.

The current report. shows that
Morgan: County now has. a lung
concer mortality’ rate of 8.9 per
100,000. population.

This. compares with a: rate of

209 per 190000. for the United
States as a whole. In the State
of Indiana, the average is 19/6 per
00,000:

 

HERALD STATESMAN
Yonkers, New. York
November 16,. 1961

IN 3 YEARS

 

Lung Caneer

eancer mortality. in tle United) continues to ve an open question|@nd the fumes from

The °

Deaths
Rise 12% In Yonkers

In Lung Cancer Death Toll

NEW. YORK: ‘Special’ — A 62! Vehomently. opposing these cone
nercsut increase: in. Hing. cancer| clusions are other medical authors-
mortality. in the: United’ S tates ties and spokesmen for the tobac~
within’ a period of three. years) co industry,
crav.s attention to the situation in} Dr. Joseph Berkson afithe Mayo.
tueene County, Mo. Clinic, Rochester, Minn.,

Mung with: the national. pielure, | that he doubts that smoking is
there was an increase in the pe: | the culprit, He contends thati sucli:
vidxt. Tt amounted to 14.8 percent |“‘proot” as has. been offered is
in the county, Throughout: thejmerely statistical and that clini-
State: ofi Missouri, Unere was a al evidence indicates: quite tihe,
uixe of 19.5 percent... ‘opposite.

‘The facts: andi figures are. con- see
toinediin the latest annual report} Some researchers look upon: air:
ui the Public Health Service. cov-{ pollution as a major cause of Jung
ering all counties. in’ the Uniled!' cancer. They believe that the. ex-
Slites ‘haust gasesiftom automobiles ane

it. shows that almost. every; the fumes from chimney; al$.un
sreaiof:the country ‘contnibuled to important: factor. As:a result, in
the imerease in .ang cancer. many, cities actoss the country,

* e steps are being taken to eradicate

Exactly what causes: the disease} or control these conditions.
continues to be an.epen’ question|! Greene County, according to the
and the. subject of bitter: argu-| Public Health Service, nadian ov-
menti Doctors at the Sloan-Ketter- | erall cancer toll:of 202 in the year)
ing Institute for Cancer. Research | ending January, 1960. .
New York, maintain: that. the in| Of: this total. the ‘umber ate
crease “closely parallels. the rise! tributed to lung cancer was 31, oF!
‘in cigarette consumption.” !13:3 pereent.

They. refer to: 30 studies thati By way of comparison, the Jung
supply statistical ev idence, so they., cancer toll nationally amounted te
claim, “that! the more a person. 14.4 percent of all: cancer deaths.
smokes the greaicr is his risk of|([n the State of Missouri,. it came
developing cancer of the lung." ‘to 15.2 percent.

  
  
 

 

 

Clinic, Rochester, Minn., states
that he doubts that! smoking. is.
the culprit. He contends that: such
“proof as has: been offered is
merely statistical and the clinical
evidence indicates. quite the op-
posite. :
Some researchers’ look upon air
pollution as a major cause: of
lung cancer. They believe that the

chimneys

States. withia a period of threetandi the subject of biiier: argu-|are an! important factor.. As a
years, draws attention tc the sit:/ ment. Doctors ati the Sloan-Ket-| Tesull, in. many, cities: across the

uation in Yonkers.

tering Institute for Cancer Re- country, steps are: being taken to.

Locally, along with the nation-i search, New. York;, maintain that | eradicate or controli these condi-
a] picture, there was ansincrease';He increase “closely parallels the | tions.

in the period).It amounted to 12,5;
percent:, Throughout the State ot|
New York, there was a rise of;

The facts and! figures are con-
tained in the latest. annual report

ering. all counties in, the: United:
States.

of the country contributed to the bacco industry.

rise in cigarette consumption.”
They. refer to 30 studies that
5.6 percent. j supply statistical
|

A 16.2:percent increase in lung] Exactly what causes the disease | exhaust! gases from: automobiles |
i

they claim, ‘‘that the more a per-
| son smokes the greater is his risk
of the Public Health Service. cov. | % developing cancer of the lung." [15.9 percent.

Vehemently, opposing these con- |’
[clusions are other medical auth-| cancer: toll nationally amounted to

Yonkers,. according to the Pub

‘lic Health Service, had an over-

‘all cancer. toll of 339 in the year

ending: January; 1960. :
Of this total, the number attri- |

evidence, so

jbuted to lung cancer was 54 or

By way of:comparison, the lung

 

In the. State of New York, it came

It shows that almost every area Tities.and spokesmen for the to114.4 percentiof ail cancer deaths. |
|
i

increase in lung cancer.

Dr. Joseph Berkson of the Mayo?! ta: 14.9. percent.

states}

@FSSPPOEOOL