Nested Discontinuity - Gabriel Kaufmann

In the proposed studies we shall use mainly in vivo- and
isolated nuclei-SV40 DNA replication systems. They are expected
to reproduce features of the replicative mechanism more
faithfully than the soluble system (10). However, the latter
system will be used in attempts to identify proteins responsible
for specific lagging strand reactions. To discern steps in
Okazaki piece synthesis we use various inhibitors, antibodies and
nucleotide manipulations. The effects of these measures on the
dynamics and spatial arrangement of lagging strand intermediates
is determined in pulse-chase experiments and enzymatic
manipulations of isolated (RI) DNA, as exemplified below.

1. DNA primers synthesized in the absence of inhibitor
configure in a contiguous or near-contiguous array within the
Okazaki zone. In contrast, when aphidicolin arrests replication
the accumulating DNA primers face a long gap at their 3' end (our
unpublished results). This suggests that only the 5'-proximal
DNA primer was synthesized in the presence of aphidicolin and
pol a was prevented from cycling further downstream (Fig. la).
With decreasing aphidicolin concentration we expect an
increasing tendency to deposit additional DNA primers downstream
and consequent gradual reduction of the 3' gap.

2. COMDP slows down Okazaki piece maturation, causing
transient accumulation of DNA primers as well as of larger,
discrete intermediates in Okazaki piece synthesis (our
unpublished results). The latter seem to arise by partial
ligation of DNA primers. One can envisage various patterns in
which such intermediates configure in the Okazaki zone, depending
on the mechanism of deposition and polarity of processing (Fig.
1). The correct pattern may be disclosed in pulse-chase
experiments, enzymatic manipulations of isolated (RI)DNA and use
of chemically distinct precursors to differentiate the two DNA
polymerization reactions. Thus, intermediates in examples b
and c but not d are expected to mature in the presence of pol «@
specific inhibitors. The removal of iRNA moieties would reduce
the size of the larger intermediates in b and d whereas in ec only
DNA primers will be affected. Configurations b and ¢ can be
distinguished by artificial gap-filling using e-thiophosphate
aNTP precursors. Following ligation the products will be
subjected to digestion with exonuclease III which is blocked by
the analogs.

3. Omission of ATP from the replication system causes DNA
primers to accumulate. They can be chased into mature Okazaki
pieces and further into long chains when ATP is restored (our
unpublished results). Although ATP omission is expected to
inhibit helicases and other replication factors, the effect of
the omission on the residual DNA synthesis may be confined to the
ligase reaction (Fig. le). If true, these DNA primers will be
chased in Okazaki pieces upon restoration of ATP, even in the
presence of gap-filling inhibitors. It would also be possible to
join them by incubating the isolated SV40 (RI) with T4 DNA ligase
alone. A negative result will suggest the existence of an
earlier ATP-requiring step in DNA primer processing.