Nested Discontinuity - Gabriel Kaufmann

NESTED DISCONTINUITY: A MODEL FOR LAGGING DNA STRAND SYNTHESIS

1. Synopsis

Three genetically distinct DNA polymerases, pols a, 6 and €,
are implicated in eucaryotic chromosome replication. Yet how
they collaborate is incompletely understooa (1). According to a
model based on studies with a soluble 5V40 replication system,
pol a@-primase synthesizes Okazaki pieces and also initiates
replication at the origin. Leading strand elongation is delegated
to pol § (2-4). This model assigns no function to pol € nor
explains how sequence fidelity is maintained without a proof-
reading function in the lagging strand DNA polymerase.

The notion that lagging strand DNA synthesis is mediated
solely by pol a-primase has been questioned by us. We proposed

Synthesis (5,6). According to this Nested Discontinuity Model
(ref. 6, Fig. 7), pol a-primase synthesizes RNA primers (iRNA)
and extends them with dNMPs to generate DNA primers below 40 nt.
Several DNA primers assemble then into an Okazaki piece in a
process which entails removal of ARNA, gap-filling by pol &§ or
pol ¢€ and ligation. A mature Okazaki piece joins then onto a
growing long chain. These conclusions are based on two types of
evidence: a) the ability to distinguish between synthesis of DNA
primers and their conversion into Okazaki pieces with specific
inhibitors and b) the configuration of DNA primers in replicating
DNA. Thus, pol a-specific agents such as BuPdcTp (7) and pol a-
specific monoclonal antibodies selectively inhibit DNA primer
synthesis. In contrast, COMDP, which inhibits pol 6 or pol e
with greater potency than pol a (8,9), slows down the synthesis
of Okazaki pieces without affecting DNA primer synthesis (our
unpublished results). We have also demonstrated that DNA primers
configure on the lagging template as a contiguous- or near-
contiguous array by enzymatic manipulations of isolated
replicating sv4o DNA, using Klenow polymerase, MMTV reverse
transcriptase and T4 DNA ligase (5 and our unpublished results).

2. Outline of plans anda goals of the proposed research

Our goal is to test the basic tenets of the Nested
Discontinuity Model. Specific issues addressed are the order of
events in Okazaki piece assembly and the identity of enzymes
involved in these steps. Regarding the first issue we consider
two opposing scenarios. In one, DNA primers are deposited
throughout the Okazaki range prior to further processing steps of
ARNA removal, gap-filling and ligation (serial mechanism).
Alternatively, processing closely follows deposition (parallel
mechanism). We also ask what are the polarities of deposition
and processing. our unpublished results suggest a 5!' to 3' order
of deposition. This would also be the order of processing ina
parallel mechanism. A serial mechanism is compatible with
processing in either polarity (see also Fig. 1). Regarding the
second issue we ask which DNA polymerase, § or €, catalyzes gap
filling; which DNA ligase, I or II, catlyzes DNA primer ligation
and whether the same enzyme ligates Okazaki pieces.