A New Jersey cigarette tax increase would be an economic boon for New York Indian
reservations. New Jersey smokers could save $6.50/carton by shopping in reduced-tax Indian
reservations in nearby New York.

Not only would the state’s retailers and wholesalers suffer from increased cigarette taxes, so
would the state’s and law enforcement community. Many states have seen significant increases
in cigarette smuggling associated with tax increases. For example, a smuggler purchasing
cigarettes in Delaware or an Indian reservation in New York would have a potential profit at
least $5.50/carton. These margins exceed the Advisory Council on Intergovernmental Relation's
(ACIR) bootleg “flashpoint” of $3.60 per carton. ACIR found that tax differences above the
“flashpoint” are likely to encourage serious investments in cigarette smuggling. A van load of
smuggled cigarettes would be worth at least $31,350 in New Jersey.

Consider the case of Michigan. After the state increased its cigarette tax to 75¢ in May of
1994, annual Michigan state tax-paid cigarette sales collapsed by 21% within a year that while,
according to the Centers For Disease Control, smoking rates actually increased.

Cigarette smuggling is a major source of crime in Michigan. In the words of Robert Manes,
head of the Michigan State Police Treasury Enforcement Division, “Efforts to get around the
tax increase are a growing problem ... With the amount of money that can be made now,
everybody that has an avenue is getting into it.” (Associated Press, Dec. 13, 1994)

While Michigan lost over 200 million tax-paid pack sales, cigarette volume went up by 11
percent in Indiana, 16 percent in Kentucky, 6 percent in Missouri, 5.6 percent in North
Carolina, 4.4 percent in Tennessee and 2 percent in Ohio.

According to a 1996 study by the American Economics Group (AEG) nearly 41,141 New
Jersey jobs were directly and indirectly supported by tobacco sales.

It is estimated that nearly 4,800 New Jersey jobs could be displaced due to the tax increase.

a
~
o
&
Ss
w
Ss
o
ul