THE WALL STREET JOURNAL THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1994

 

 

LAW

2046562645

Trial Lawyers Reach Out to Republicans

By Mito iN
Staff Reporter of Tae Wats. STREET IUCRNAL
cing the fight of its Life over legal
the nation’s largest Liat lawyers
is trying te reach out to
F Republicans and promote its members as
defenders of indivicual rights.
Toe Association of Trial Lawyers of
America, the 60,4Xhmember piaintifts bar,
had hegun trying to
bycaden its appea} | LEGAL BEAT
before Novernber's 'qp-——g—e
Repubsican sween, | a
which revived pros-
peets for cargres-
somal action on
ta that
_ limit the abttity of

individuals to re- |
‘cover damages in
+ Tawsuil t

efforts i

ved spirits in the consumer ard environ:

mena ements.
. Now, ith the election results providing
5 added tinpetus, ATLA 's hoping to reach
ov t¢ Republicans by depicting the civil
justice system as a kellowed conservative
institution, The ercup has even hired 8 Re-
peulicen campdign ecnsulting fim, the

Goodman Group of Lutherville, Md., to

produce a nine-minute video lo help get tis

message across.

In tke video, to be distributed nation-
ally by ATLA‘s state counterparts and
shown ta lecal civle and community
groups, trial lawyers make 2 case that they
are proud defenders of individual rights,
with a stirring backelrop of soaring eagles,
early morning farm work and sweeping
pancremas of Mount Rushmore.

Pubiie relations aside, longtime mem-
hers say ATLA 's making an even more

. findamental change in te way it
operates. White it used to rely sclely on
quiet, infiuential lobbying—backed by lav-
ish politlcal-campaign donations — ATLA
ow wants to redouble efforts througa its
slate aiflijates to become more of a grass-

t's voice,

+ The chonges at ATLA reflect the
p's recogmision that it feces dtminish-
Sag support in Congress, even among Dem-
oetats, and a pubhe increasingly distru
ful cf lawyers. Pressure for iegal reform to
i liability and the siae of demage
awarés has beer movating steadily for
several years, Advocates have argued that
out-af-eontrot litigation over allegedly de-
fective preduets is costing hundreds of
billions of dovars a year, making It impoa-
sib'e far some companies to compete, and
deterring innovation,

" pect to get our pecple on their
feet, talking to groups," says Abe Fucti
burg, ulongtine ATLA member and presi-
dentof the New York Triat Lawyers assocl-
ation. Social, civic, community and reli-
gious grouzs are all galng to be contacted,
he says,

Elsewhere, seme local and stale crgani- ,
rations are thinking of changing their ;
names, replacing ‘Trial Lawyers” with &
itle more closely approximating corsamer
interests, And ATLA has also begun io
publicly distance itself from the more
unsavory aspects of the plaintiffs bar,
. particularly television advert
trher forms of client soliciteticn. In cne |
exampie, ATLA bas fited a friend ofthe: +
clef in favor of a state-impesed

Ge-day waiting period in Florida fer plain:
tiffs lawyers who want to solicit victlms of
accidents. The case is before the U.S.
Supreme Cou. ; -

Through heavily financed Icboying,
ATLA has successfully fonded off federal-
reform efiorls fr more than & decade,
though by smaller margins each time. Last
tonfa's Republican landslide, carrying
‘rill, i the mandate for ‘commar-sense
Tegal reform." however, has adéed ur-

- gency to the need for a change In ATLA's:
cause, The group 1s determined to more
aggressively advocate ils mission as @
defender of the public interest,

“Tm sure no one wil ever give Up
talking to congressmen cr legislators, and
nobody should,” says ATLA member Leor-
rd Schroeter, in Seattle, “But there's a
greet difference between articulallng @
point of view and purckzsing support. The

election reaffirms the impertarce ol

   

   
 

 

 

  

 

 
   

 

 

   

   

   

  

 

 

 

    

 

 

    

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

   

   

 

  

 

   

ATLA, he says, wil respond by “

 

ing n more {gsuc-oriented and public:
poliey-oriented group.”
Tn sotne ways, ATLA will take ics cule

 

 

from ils independent state counterparts,
For years, they have reached out to other
interest groups, notably environmentalists
and consumer groups, and successfully
promoted themselves as advocates for the
weak and powertess, That ground work
paid off in Arizona and Michigan this
year, Where legal-reform batlot inlitatives
were overwhelmingly defeated In the face
of huge Republican victories in congres-
stonal and gubernatorial races. In ball
cases, trial lawyers were heavily outspent
tn the campaign by the insurance industry
bat wen with suppert from Mothers
st Drank Driving and the American
‘lation of Relired Persons.

ATLA, on the other hand, has until
recently chosen to lobby discreetly behind
closed doors. Its former directar of public
E R er, & former chief coun-
sel of the House Jud.ciary Committee, was
vlewed as sect by some
ATLA member

Their strategy was to make friends

and get favors In retumn for
than fighting issues on the
merits ina pubite wi ays Pam GUbert,
lepistlative director at Pulte Citizen, the
consumer advocacy and loobying group in
Washinglon, "Thelr strategy was {hat
by supporting something publicly, you can
make someone angry.”

The clearest indication tht these days
were numbered came fast April, whea Mr,
Parker retired and was succeeded by [or-
mer Consumers Union lobbyist Linda Lin-
sen. “The change to Linda Lipsen makes &
big difference,” says Ms. Gilbert, "She
comes from the public-interest community,
and understands how to Tight a battle In a
public way,”

Not thet ATLA wit be giving up Its
seals in Washington's back rooms, The
trigl lawyers’ polltical-action committee
doled out $1.6 million in. campaign contri:
butions in the last election, spending
$262,350 on Democrals and $6,800 on Re-
publicans. “T don’t sce any change In
terms of our continued Invalvement in the
financial aspect of supporting poiltical
candidates," says Victor Pavalon, 2 Chi-
cago triat lawyer and presi¢ent’ of the
ATLA political-action committee. “Hope-
fully it will increase,”*

ATLA hopes to draw support in Cen-
gress from Republican members who are
uncomfortable with federal mandates and
prefer to leave legal reform to the states.
‘And some of ATLA'S retooled message
may well resonate with some Republi-
cans.

“True Republican values have always
been, as Isee it, the protection of (he right
of the individual," says ATLA president
Larry §. Stewart, a plaintiffs jawyer in
Miami, “That’s exactly what the civil
Justice system, is afl about.”