samples. Measures of cotinine are likely to be
preferable for epidemiological surveys since
they provided a good guide to exposure over a
three day period, while nicotine was only
useful as marker of exposure on the day of
testing, and even then not in plasma. These
differences between nicotine and its major
metabolite are no doubt due to differences in
their half lives in blood (about 2 hours and 12
hours respectively) and in their disposition in
different body fluids. Neither CO nor thiocya-
nate varied with the reported exposure to ETS
and hence are unlikely to be of value in quan-
tifying chronic exposure to ETS.

The data also provide evidence for the
validity of responses to questionnaire items as
guides to ETS exposure, albeit in circular
fashion, Biochemical markers validate the
utility of self-report, and self-reports validate
the utility of biochemical markers. We can
conclude that while measures such as salivary
or urinary cotinine should be employed wher-
ever possible, self-report by questionnaire can
give valuable information about exposure to

ETS.

Short-term natural exposure

The data above suggest that under normal eve-
ryday conditions the majority of urban non-
smokers have measurable amounts of tobacco
specific substances in their bodies. Experi-
mental exposures are also well documented
(11). The amount absorbed obviously depends
on the severity and duration of the exposure.
Under extreme conditions in an unventilated
smoke-filled room (38 ppm CQ) for just over
an hour we found that the COHb levels of
non-smokers increased by an average of one
per cent (12), which is roughly equivalent to
the increase produced by smoking one middle-
tar cigarette. CO, then, while not sensitive to
self-report of daily life exposure, reflects an
acute extreme experimental exposure. We
were interested to document the absorption of

71

nicotine and CO from a more natural experi-
mental exposure and to obtain data for esti-
mating dosage in “cigarette-equivalents”.

We studied seven urban non-smokers who
provided samples of blood, expired air, urine
and saliva at 11.30 in the morning of a normal
working day and again in the evening fol-
lowing 2 hours exposure to ETS in a public
house (13 ppm CO). This study has been
reported fully elsewhere (13). The mean values
of each measure of smoke intake before and
after the exposure are shown in Table 2. All
subjects had measurable levels of both nicotine
and cotinine on the morning of the study day.
Following the work day and pub exposure
there were significant increases in the levels of
all compounds measured. Expired air CO
levels rose by an average of 5.9 ppm, equi-
valent approximately to the smoking of one
cigarette, while plasma nicotine increased by
only 1.7 ng/ml. This represents a small frac-
tion of the typical increase in plasma nicotine
from smoking a cigarette, and points to an
apparent discrepancy between CO and nico-
tine in estimating the acute dose from ETS in
cigarette-equivalents.

Nicotine and CO differ both in their half
lives in blood and in their behaviour in
ambient air. Nicotine is contained mainly in
the smoke particles which, unlike CO would
tend to settle gradually. Furthermore, it is
probable that nicotine evaporates gradually
from ageing smoke particles. Data on half-lives
of various smoke components in ageing smoke
are not available. In order to reach a better
estimate of the dose of nicotine received by our
subjects, we undertook a laboratory study
where known small doses of nicotine were
administered to subjects to compare the
resulting blood levels.

Estimation of nicotine intake
We measured the plasma nicotine concentra-
tions in six subjects before, during and after

GLEL 6nZ0S

 

 

ete ener are

Pe er te NLR 8 RON tN OTS