.
nem

fn te gna ae Se emg Rem pe EOE. ln ye gO mk

74

Intake of other smoke constituents and implications for
health

The fact that in cigarette-equivalent terms
non-smokers appear to absorb different pro-
portions of nicotine and CO when exposed to
ETS suggests that caution is needed in extra-
polating the dose of any particular smoke con-
stituent in the absence of a direct measure. The
tar fraction is of particular concern since it is
likely to be implicated in any risk of ETS expo-
sure affecting the respiratory system. We
simply note that nicotine, like tar, is in the
particulate phase and that nicotine concentra-
tions are likely to provide a better guide than
CO to the amount of tar absorbed.

Our estimates of the doses of nicotine and
CO received by non-smokers in their daily
lives are both low, and might therefore be con-
sidered to pose minimal risks to health. How-
ever, two considerations militate against this
conclusion. First, since we have shown a dose-
response relationship between exposure and
intake, there is a likelihood that some heavily
exposed individuals may receive a larger, and
possibly clinically significant, dose. Secondly,
and as pointed out above, our data strictly
apply only to those smoke constituents that we
have measured. Non-smokers. may receive a
larger proportion of the smoking dose of cer-
tain other smoke components. One possibility
is that the risk to non-smokers derives from
qualitatives differences between sidestream
and mainstream smoke. The sidestream/main-
stream ratios are particularly high, up to ten, in
the case of various carcinogenic nitrosamines
(11).

Finally, it is worth noting that the persons
most heavily exposed to ETS are those who
smoke actively as well, and hence are exposed
to their own mainstream and sidestream
smoke. The U.S. Surgeon General (11) recently
concluded that “Pipe and cigar smokers expe-
rience overall mortality rates that are slightly

higher than non-smokers... Coronary heart
disease, lung cancer, emphysema and chronic
bronchitis clearly are associated with cigarette
smoking; but for cigar and pipe smoking, death
rates for these diseases are not greatly elevated
above the rates of non-smokers.” Pipe and
cigar smokers, particularly in the classical epi-
demiological studies, comprised mostly indi-
viduals who had never smoked cigarettes, and
who were therefore likely to be noninhalers.
They would then be “passive inhalers” of both
sidestream and mainstream smoke, and to the
extent that their numbers included some who
actively inhaled, any observed risks of mor-
bidity and mortality can only be an overesti-
mate of the risks of ETS exposure per se.

Acknowledgement

We thank the Medical Research Council for
financial support.

REFERENCES

1. Harlap S, Davies A. M. Infant admissions to
hospital and maternal smoking. The Lancet
1974; 529-532.

2. Colley J. R. T, Holland W. W, Corkhill R. T.
Influence of passive smoking and parental
phlegm on pneumonia and bronchitis in early
childhood. The Lancet, 1974: 2:1031-1034.

3. White J. Froeb H. Small-airways dysfunction in
nonsmokers chronically exposed to tobacco
smoke. New Engl ] Med 1980: 302:720-723.

4. Hirayama T. Non-smoking wives of heavy
smokers have a higher risk of lung cancer: a
study from Japan. Br Med J 1981: 282:183-
185.

5. Trichopoulos D, Kalandidi A, Sparros L,
McMahon B. Lung Cancer and Passive
Smoking. Int J Cancer 1981: 27:1-4,

6. Garfinkel L. Time trends in lung cancer mor-
tality among non-smokers and a note on passive
smoking. J natn Cancer Inst 1981: 66:1061-
1076.

7. Editorial. Passive smoking: Forest, Gasp, and
facts. The Lancet 1982: 1:548-549.

oe

B8L8L 6hZ0S

Me Rn A pe a emg on ree nace pe pee tne

Neen Ne