2.2. Measurement and estimation of smoke
dosage to non-smokers from environmental
tobacco smoke

Martin J. JARVIS AND MICHAEL A. H. Russet

INTRODUCTION

Recent increased public awareness and con-
cern about environmental tobacco smoke
(ETS) has derived from a number of epidem-
iological studies which have suggested signifi-

_eant risks to the health of the exposed non-

stnoker. Some studies have found that young
children with smoking parents have an
increased risk of bronchitis and pneumonia,
especially in the first year of life (1, 2). Adults
chronically exposed to ETS have been reported
to have impaired lung function (3) and an
increased risk of lung cancer (4-6). The issue
has provoked intense debate (7-9), and it is fair
to say that the reality of the risks is not as yet
generally accepted by the scientific commu-
nity. One of the weaknesses of the studies so far
performed is that they have not attempted to
quantify the actual dose of ETS received by the
non-smoker, although, as one critic has argued,
this is fundamental to evaluation of the evi-
dence (10).

Epidemiological investigation of the risks of
ETS exposure would benefit from both a reti-
able non-invasive marker and a validated ques-
tionnaire for assessing the degree of exposure.
While blood carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) has
been found to be of use in short-term studies, it

is not specific to tobacco smoke and may not be
sufficiently sensitive to reflect the totality of
exposure across the whole range of situations
occurring in daily life. Thiocyanate (SCN) may
likewise suffer from a lack of specificity and
sensitivity. Nicotine is specific to tobacco but
has a short half life in plasma, and its major
metabolite, cotinine, may provide a better
guide.

The present paper addresses several issues
on estimating the human dose of ETS. In the
first section we present data relating to the
validity of self-reports of ETS exposure and to
the choice of biochemical marker for use in
epidemiological surveys. We then document
the smoke dose received from a short-term
natural exposure, and in the final section relate
this to blood and urinary nicotine levels
resulting from slow intravenous infusion of
small known doses of nicotine. This enables us
to reach some conclusions about the dose
received from ETS, as opposed to that received
from smoking. These studies will be published
in greater detail elsewhere.

Validity of self-reports

A sample of 121 self-reported non-smokers
attending outpatient clinics at St. Mary’s Hos-
pital, London, filled in a smoking question-

Lo

TOT A RR TURN a LTRS MN Sm
ay *

ZLEL 6hZ0S