“

te with his eyes and, 28
a his wheelchair, his eyes

‘er since we got the ramp

seeks ago, there's a differ-
Stevie. You can see it,” his
was saying,

vie Leggett has not had an
“e. He was born three

+ premature, weighing just
more than 2 pounds, For
the only reason he left the
+28 to go to school or, just
1, the hospital.

mother has to negotiate a

: stalrcase leading to their
:-floor home on Fuller

- hear the Ashmont MBTA
1in Dorchester, In winter,
« Stevie down the front
steps was a potential dis-
very day.

2 guys at the Knights of
bus in Roxbury heard
stevie. Soon, Joe Coffey, a
1223 member and carpen-
sin the front yard, build-
ump. .

an’t just wheel Stevie

1e ramp. Uh-uh, We've got
raride,” Angie Leggett
laining. “We used to take
the school bus and he’d

, knowing what lay ahead.
e looks forward to his

vie looks forward to the
ionths ahead, too, so he
n his ramp, above the
watching lifeon Fuller
nd a world that until now
nonly through a window
television screen.

 

 

 

   

GLOBE STi
Bud Hyder Hight 1 up 1 his blpe at the , Corrib Pub simtbng he may not be able te do there in July.

‘Where f there’s ho smoke

It doesn’t mean there isn’t a slow burn about banning it

 

BY JENNIFER KINGSON BLOOM
Special to the Globe

BROOKLINE -~ It’s one thing for restaurants to
have separate smoking and nonsmoking sections, says
Bud Hyder. But to ban all smoking in bars, he said, is

“an oul ”

trage.

“T don’t think it’s going to
METRO work,” said Hyder, puffing on a
DIARY pipe as he quaffed his beer at the
Corrib Pub yesterday. “Drinking

———--——=_ and smoking go together.”
On Tuesday, Brookline’s town. meeting members
approved the most comprehensive smoking ban in the

staté, one that will make it illegal to smoke in all town

restaurants, bars and taxicabs, Unless state legisla-
tors can intervene ~ as some are attempting to do ~

the law will take effect in July, and violators will fa

$50 fines.

_| At the Corrib Pub, a high-spirited Irish bar and
restaurant with a tight crowd of regulars, the new law
drew a firestorm of criticism. In an age when smokers
routinely receive nasty glances and comments on the
street, patrons said they viewed ‘bars like the Corrih
as a last refuge.

“I don’t even smoke that much, and I don't agree
with this,” said Vie Jackson, a former Brookline resi-
dent who now delivers meals on wheels in the town.

Sitting beside’ Jackson was his friend Bob Var-
num, who also had harsh words for the ban, “I don’t
like what's going on with this town - it’s too liberal,”

said Varnum, a Brookdine polis officer who smokes,

 

the regulations are in force, they: will take their busi-
ness elsewhere.

. “I won't come here,” said’ Danny Hagerty, Si, a a.

  

STAFF PHOTO/ FRANK O'BRIEN

GLOBE STAFF PHOTO / FRANK O' "BRIEN
Brookline School ol Department employee Danny
Hagerty has a smoke with his drink at Corrib.

  

 eustodian with the Brookline School Department, who | ~
said he could just as easily spend his lunch break
_ down the street in Allston, “If you have a beer, you've | yz,
" got to have at least two smokes with it.”

Even some nonsmokers were upset. Jack Teahan,.

i =e > <a 69-year-old retiree who lives around the comer frou?
=e re at the bar at lunchtime vowed that when””

the Corrib, gave up cigarettes’ on his doctor’s orders
” put still believes that people who want to light up in
_ Festaurants should have the right. -

". - SMOKING, Page 50

2070109534:

 

 

ly puts three former campaign workers on ¢

paign consultant; Mukiya Baker-Gomez, his
campaign manager; and Karen Charles, a
eampaign aide, be put on the city payroll for
at least the next six weeks at 2 cost of $15,060
to the city treasury.

Last week, Bolling fired toro City Council

aides, Ronald Marlow and Moniqua Kidwell,

apparently to make room for Ferriabough and =

Baker-Gomez. . ~ bough and Baker-Gomez the money they are .
“owed, a total of $16,000. He sald that he éx-
pected to hold fund-raisers to retire the debt’.

 

Bolting yesterday dismissed the auggée
tion that the avpolntmenta represent a payoff .

“I'm going to use the resources I have at
my disposal to the fullest of my capacity,” he
said. “I have a job to do here that ends Dec.
31, and I'm going to do the job until Dec. 81. I

- take it seriously, and T will meet the obliga-

tions I have.”
He said that his campaign committee,
which is now broke, would still pay Ferria-

The three appointments are for 90 days,

. ‘which means that technically the trio is onthe’ -
“payroll until Feb, 16 ~ seven weeks after Boll-_

ing leaves public office ~ but they are expect-

ed to be terminated when his replacement’ ~

takes office at the-beginning of January. .

Charles had been working in Bolling’s of- -.

fice as a secretary since last summer, While ‘

Bolling’s campaign expense report Nets her as -*.

2 consultant, she has said in the past that she

worked on his carnpaign on her own timne. This: