1-5-6/Ambient smoke

Thurs., Aug. 11, 1977-S.F.Examiner-Page 37

Other voices /in orice ree
Second-hand smoke —is it harmful?

By Charies H. Hine, M.D.

S A MEDICAL SCIENTIST involved tn research, I
ve been asked more and more often of late to
comment on legislation now pending in the California
Legislature to prohibit or restrict smoking in all places
of employment and most places to which the public has
accem.

Rather than enter the political arena, | confine my
remarks to facts established by competent research
and in which qualified medical experts — tocluding
those who often represent anti-smoking organizations
— concur.

Senate Bil} 500. now under consideration by our
Legislature, begins with these words:

“The Legislature finds and declares that tobacco
smoke and smoke from other plants is harmful to the
health, comfort and environment of non-smokers...”

The Legislature can no doubt find that tobacco
amoke is disturbing to the comfort and desired
environment of nonsmokers, but to declare it harmful
to the health of non-smokers contradicts medical facts.

A pon-smoker cannot contract cancer or other
diseases from second-hand smoke..

Before further addressing the question of disease,
ft ts necessary to dispel several misconceptions about
sidestream tobacco smoke.

Firstly, because it is diluted by the environment, it
is not “more toxic” than the smoke inhaled by the
smoker.

In addition, any ‘attempt to measure ambient
tobacco smoke must take into account complex
variables such as smoke concentration, room volume,
ventilation.

Another misconception is that'the exposure of a
gsone«moker can be measured in terms of a specific
sumber of cigarettes. Although misleading, the
éoncept of using 2 given number of cigarettes is
understandable, especially for lay persons and non-
inedical journalists.

However, such an extrapolation involves highly
unreliable estimates and is usually based upon
dnfealistic experiments.

_ Apart from a discussion of disease, there probably
are physical irritations involved with exposure to high
concentrations of tobacco smoke.

This may be caused by constituents of tobacco
smpoke like ammonia, acrojein and aldehydes, especially
When they are coupied with warm, dry air.

It fs not inconceivable that the odor and high
visibility of tobacco smoke play a part in the annoyance
feaction of some non-smokers to tobacco smoke.

_ Unfortunately, definite evidence available that
such ts the case dees not exist. While (bere have been
some experiments, which create simulated exposures,
these studies employ experimental conditions which
are not typical of those in real life.

The medical literature to date does not indicate
any significant heaith risk to the non-smoker {rom
environmental tobacco smoke normally encountered in
Gay-to-day situations.

It ts of interestito exarnine the observations of
scientists who have generally expressed anti-tobacco
sentiments.

For example, Dr. E. Cuyler Hammon, vice
president, Epidemiology and Statistical Research, of
the American Cancer Society, addressed the
International Conference on Public Education About
Cancer in Monaco tn 1974.

A delegate asked Dr. Hammor his views on the
hazards of tobacco smoke on non-smokers who inhale
it. The official summary proceedings of the conference
reports

“Dr. Hammon stated that there was ‘no shred of
evidence that a non-smoker can get cancer from
‘second-hand’ smoke and there is a lot of evidence that
be cannot... He added that'to suggest passive smoking
(inhalation of smoke by non-smokers) could cause
cancer is dishonest, and that he would be prepared to
testify as much in court.”

Dr. Johnathan Rboades, chairman of the National
Cancer Advisory Board and a past-president of the
American Cancer Society, ts another prestigious

spokesman for the anti-smoking movement. He
declared:

“I do not have bard evidence in that direction (that:

there is a harmful effect from smoke on the non-
smoker). To my knowledge, it is not, in fact, actually
barmful”

The “Journal of Preventive Medicine” reported to
its professional readership:.

“It appears that passive inhalation of (second-hand)
tobacca smoke by non-smokers or smokers does not
increase \heir risk for chronic illnesses such as cancer.
of the respiratory tract, emphysema or cardiovascular

Dr. Ernest Wydner, of. the American Health
Foundation; is one of. the major scientific voices of the
antismoking movement. He sums it up this way:

_“Passive smoking can provide tears or can be
peoerwise disagreeable, but it has no influence on the
ealth.”

California's legislators face a potitical decision
concerning what some non-smokers find disagreeable
or annoying.

To proclaim such a law necessary to protect the
health of non-smokers is a premise contradicted by
scientific evidence. The opinion of researchers does not
provide a sound scientific basis upon which the
proposed law may rest.

Dr. Charles H.
Hine ts clinical
professor of
preventive
medicine,
toxicology and
environmental
medicine at the
University of
California
Medica! Center,
Sap Francisco.
He also isa
consultant for
the California
Department of
Heaith.

 

Raprinted with the permission of the San Francisco Exarniner

bee642teo]!]