2078705879

CALIFORNIA: State Senator Joe Dunn, Assemblywoman Helen Thomson and California
Medical Association officials released a poll showing that 72% of respondents
support earmarking all MSA funds for health programs. Dunn and Thomson have
introduced such a bill (AB100), set to be heard on the Senate floor today. The
poll questioned 600 registered voters. (CMA press release)

Cigarettes Cheaper head Ned Roscoe said his Repeal Prop 10 movement has
filed petitions with the Secretary of State's office containing 705,000
signatures, considerably more than needed to get the repeal question on next
year's statewide ballot. (Orange County Register/Weston)

MINNESOTA: Colleen M. Naughton was recently named Director of Strategic
Development at American Lung Association of Minnesota. She was previously
Executive Director of The Health Fund of Minnesota, a workplace charitable
giving campaign. Her new job is "a cross functional position dealing with board
development, strategic planning, fundraising, programming and communications."
{ALA press release)

OHIO: The state budget office released a draft plan for spending Ohio's MSA
money (projected at $10,1 billion). Under the proposal, $5.7 billion would go
to education, $4.1 billion to health and smoking cessation programs, $229
million for agriculture and economic development in the state's tobacco
communities, and $25 million to upgrade state law enforcement labs. The Ohio
Tobacco Task Force meets today to hear a briefing on the plan. (AP/Souhrada)

OKLAHOMA: The Oklahoman continues its series on smoking with a look at smoking
policies on Oklahoma college campuses. (Oklahoman/Killackey)

Miscellaneous

Philip Morris announced that it would resume shipping Marlboro cigarettes to
Columbia, but would ship them from a plant in Venezuela rather than one in the
U.S. to circumvent arbitrarily high tariffs on U.S.-made tobacco products. PM
had stopped shipping the Marlboros to the country in June after the Columbian
government raised the tariffs to combat widespread smuggling of American
cigarettes with the complicity of manufacturers. (AP, Dow Jones/Koop)

The Charlotte Observer looks at the role of corporate CEOs in communicating
public messages about their companies, particularly when faced with negative
news coverage. RJR is one of several North Carolina companies used as examples
in the story. (CO/Hopkins)

QuotesWatch

Bruce Reed, White House domestic adviser, in a briefing yesterday on Clinton's
education initiative: "(In our budget) we stay within the caps and provide
offsets for our spending, including a 55 cent excise tax on tobacco, which is
good fiscal policy but, more important, it's good health

policy that along with the state settlement and some other changes that have
been put in place would help to cut youth smoking in half over the next five
years and save a million lives. Now, as you know, this Congress doesn't have
the greatest record on tobacco, but this is their chance to do right by the
American people. And, as we've said all along, the more Congress looks at other
budget alternatives, the better our approach is going to look." (White House
transeript, 9/8/99)