2078705880

"The choice that Congress faces on this is simple: they can cut education,
they can spend from the Social Security trust fund - or they can save children's
lives by raising the price of smoking. that wasn't a hard choice for us, it's
not a hard choice for most Americans. Under our plan we can save children's
lives and save the Social Security surplus." (White House transcript, 9/8/99)

"The last Congress showed that it would only stand up to the tobacco lobby
kicking and
screaming. But when Congress looks at the other alternatives for how to square
this budget and get out of town, they're going to be kicking and screaming and
they should take a close look at the tobacco proposal." (White House transcript,
9/8/93)

David Adelman, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter tobacco analyst, on the Florida Court
of Appeals decision on punitive damages in Engle: "The ruling was
extraordinarily important. It was unexpected and it was one of the most
favorable industry legal developments in the past several years. It materially
reduced the industry's aggregate legal risk." (Dow Jones, 9/7/99)

On market reaction to the decision: "I'm puzzled by the stock's reaction.
I thought all tobacco stocks would be up strongly today." (Dow Jones, 9/7/99}

Roy Burry, Brown Brothers Harriman tobacco analyst, on the Engle decision:: It
{the ruling) will make it a lot more difficult if the trial ever gets to the
third phase. It also increases the likelihood that the case will be decertified
if it gets to the appeals court." (Dow Jones, 9/7/99)

Daniel Peris, Argus Research analyst, on market reaction to the Engle decision:
"My main conclusion would be that most investors are still not convinced that
the litigation threat has gone away. ... They're right, to some extent. It has
diminished significantly." (Dow Jones, 9/7/99

Marc Cohen, Goldman Sachs tobacco analyst, on the Engle decision: "There are
some analysts who have taken a view that this ruling would produce much stronger
upsides. ... I am not surprised that we're not seeing that. These companies were
in a predicament. They're now out of

that predicament. But they continue to face the prospect of up to nine
minitrials to examine the individual issues that are raised by the class
members. ... All of those issues are going to have to be hammered down one by
one. While the cigarette industry wins a large percentage of those cases, they
probably lose 10% of those cases. So it wouldn't surprise me if they lost one of
these upcoming minitrials." (Dow Jones, 9/7/99)

The Week Ahead

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 - House Appropriations subcommittee on Labor-HHS-Education
marks up draft FY2000 Labor-HHS Appropriations bill. 10 a.m., 2358 Rayburn
Bldg.

Meeting of the North Carolina Phase II board. 2 p.m. Hunt Horse Complex,
N.C. State Fairgrounds, Trinity Rd., Raleigh NC.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 - Rosh Hashana. Wo roll call votes in House or Senate.
¢ 4

If you have a problem receiving Heads Up or would like to be placed on the
distribution list, please e-mail John Galletta or call 301-604-8300.