OHIO: The Ohio Tobacco Task Force, state legislators and members of Gov. Bob
Taft's cabinet hear a briefing by state Budget Director Tom Johnson on his
proposal for spending the state's MSA money. Time/location not available.
Columbus.

WASHINGTON: Second of six Washington state Department of Health smoking
prevention workshops held to determine what types of prevention activities
ultimately will work best in Washington. 6:30 p.m. PDT, Conf. Room 268,
Deaconess Medical Center, West 800 Fifth Avenue, Spokane.

News Highlights
Federal

During a White House press briefing yesterday on President Clinton's education
initiatives, Domestic Policy Council head Bruce Reed and National Economic
Advisor Gene Sperling said the administration would push Congress to accept
Clinton's 55 cent tobacco tax hike to offset new spending on schools. When
pushed by the press, Reed suggested that new revenue from the tax could also be

used for other purposes. (Asked by one reporter why the Administration didn't
plan to spend the money on health programs, Reed referred to the "independent
health value" of an increase in the cost of cigarettes.) (White House
transcript)

A Dow Jones story previews upcoming Senate debate on several issues, including
bankruptcy reform legislation, expected to reach the floor next week.
Democratic Senators have hinted they may introduce amendments to the bankruptcy
bill to exempt legal judgements against tobacco and gun manufacturers from
Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (Dow Jones/Anderson and Kopecki)

Litigation

The judge in the Engle trial delayed the start of Phase II until at least
Thursday following last Friday's the Appeals Court's decision to strike down his
trial structure on punitive damages and other matters. Judge Kaye will meet
with attorneys on both sides today to lay out a revised trial plan and hear
motions on that and other issues. Industry attorneys filed a series of new
motions yesterday including a request for a new jury (claiming the current jury
may have been biased by media coverage of their decision in Phase I), and a
dismissal of the claims of deceased plaintiff Angela DellaVecchia (defense
counsel wants the claims refiled in a wrongful death suit). The industry also
introduced a new lead attorney yesterday - former U.S. Attorney Dan Webb.
(Reuters/Sutton, AP, WSJ)

Analysts said they were puzzled by the performance of tobacco stocks
yesterday. After surging late Friday on news of the Engle decision, shares of
PM, RJR and Loews dropped on Tuesday. (Dow Jones/Yost)

A federal judge in Madison, Wisconsin dismissed a proposed class-action lawsuit
against the state by Medicaid patients seeking a share of the Wisconsin's MSA
payments. The plaintiffs were all smokers or former smokers who had received
Medicaid-funded treatments for "smoking-related" conditions and who wanted to
use industry payments to compensate them for additional medical expenses not
reimbursed through Medicaid. The judge ruled that such suits were barred under
the sovereign immunity clause of the 11th Amendment. (AP)

,

States