Ahrombosis and Haemostasis

© F. K. Schattauer Verlagsgesellschaft mbH (Stuttgart) 73 (3) 458-65 (1995)

Interaction of Lp(a) with Plasminogen Binding Sites on Cells

Lindsey A. Miles', Gunther M. Fless?, Angelo M. Scanu2.3, Patricia Baynham!,
Matthew T. Sebald!, Pamela Skocir4, Linda K. Curtiss’, Eugene G. Levin,

Jane L. Hoover-Plow4, Edward F. Plow4

From the 'Department of Vascular Biology and Department of Immunology, The Scripps Research Institute,
La Jolla, CA, USA, the 7Department of Medicine and ‘Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA, the “Center for Thrombosis and Vascular Biology (FF20),
Department of Molecular Cardiology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, USA

Summary

Lp(a) competes with plasminogen for binding to cells but it is not
known whether this competition is due to the ability of Lp(a) to interact
directly with plasminogen receptors. In the present study, we demon-
strate that Lp(a) can interact directly with plasminogen binding sites on
monocytoid U937 cells and endothelial cells. The interaction of Lp(a)
with these sites was time dependent, specific, saturable, divalent ion in-
dependent and temperature sensitive, characteristics of plasminogen
binding to these sites. The affinity of plasminogen and Lp(a) for these
sites also was similar (Ky = 1-3 44M), but Lp(a) bound to fewer sites
(~10-fold less). Both gangliosides and cell surface proteins with car-
boxy-terminal lysyi residues, including enolase, a candidate plasmino-
gent receptor, inhibited Lp(a) binding to U937 cells, Additionally, Lp(a)
interacted with low affinity lipoprotein binding sites an these cells
which also recognized LDL and HDL. The ability of Lp(a} to interact
with sites on cells that recognize plasminogen may contribute to the
pathogenetic consequences of high levels of circulating Lp(a).

Introduction

Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] is a distinct lipoprotein particle, which is as-
sociated with the development of premature atherosclerosis and with
disease processes involving thrombosis (1-7). Lp(a) has a structure si-
milar to low density lipoprotein (LDL) but contains an unique apopro-
tein, apopratein(a) [apo(a)], which is disulfide-linked to apoB-100.
Apo(a) is highly homologous to plasminogen. The cDNA of the apo(a)
isoform which was sequenced predicted a structure containing 38
kringles, disulfide-looped structures of ~80 amino acids; of these, 37
were 75-85% identical to kringle 4 of plasminogen and one was 91%
identical to kringle 5 of plasminogen (8). The kringles of plasminogen
possess lysine binding functions and are important in mediating the
interactions of plasminogen with its substrates and inhibitors. Lp(a)
particles also may exhibit lysine binding properties and interfere with

 

Correspondence to: Dr. E. F. Plow, Center for Thrombosis and Vascular
Biology (FF20), Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA -
FAX Number: + 216445 8204

Abbreviations used are: apo(a), apoprotein(a), BSA, bovine serum al-
bumin; CPB, carboxypeptidase B; EACA, €-aminocaproic acid: HBSS, Hank’s
balanced salt solution, 0.05 M HEPES pH 7.4; HDL, high density lipoprotein;
HUVEC, human umbilical vein endothelial cells; LDL, low density tipo-
protein, Lp(a), lipoprotein(a); SDS, sodium dadccyl sulfate and SDS-PAGE,
SDS polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; TCA, trichloroacetic acid.

functions of plasminogen which depend upon kringle-mediated inter-
actions (9-15).

Plasminogen interacts with cel] surfaces via its kringles (14). The in-
teraction of plasminogen with cells has profibrinolytic consequences,
and Lp(a) competes for the interaction of plasminogen with cells
(17-19). This competition inhibits plasminogen activation on cell sur-
faces (19, 20), an effect which may contribute to the thrombotic and
atherosclerotic risks associated with high levels of circulating Lp(a).
The interpretation of these experiments has been that Lp(a) binds to
plasminogen receptors. Although apo(a) binds directly to endothelial
cells, it was not shown whether this interaction was inhibited by plas-
minogen (19). Lp(a) binding to human monocyte-derived macrophages
has been demonstrated, but a potential contribution of plasminogen
binding sites was not evaluated in this study (21). Indeed, apo(a) has
the ability to interact with adherent skin fibroblasts via mechanisms
not shared with plasminogen (22). Moreover, direct interaction of
apo(a) with a mouse macrophage cell line (P388D.1) was inhibited by
acetylated LDL and was totally unaffected by plasminogen (23).

Based upon these inconsistencies, we have sought to test whether the
intact Lp(a) particle can interact directly with plasminogen binding
sites on cells. Complicating such an analysis are the interactions of
Lp(a) with lipoprotein binding sites on cells. Interaction of Lp(a) with
the high affinity apoB/E receptor for LDL has-been demonstrated
although Lp(a} appears to have a lower affinity for these sites (24-26).
Interaction of modified Lp(a) with the scavenger receptor, which also
binds other modified (acetylated or oxidized) but not native lipopro-
teins, has been demonstrated (27). Finally, many cells express “non-
selective” lipoprotein binding sites (28-31). These sites bind both LDL
and HDL. Such interactions are presumably dependent upon the lipid or
hydrophobic character of the lipoprotein particles. To dissect the inter-
action of Lp(a) with plasminogen binding sites, we have selected
specific cell types, culture conditions and assay conditions to block its
interaction with lipoprotein binding sites.

Experimental Procedures

Proteins and lipoproteins, Lp(a) was prepared from fresh human plasma by
flotation centrifugation followed by affinity chromatography on lysine-Sepha-
rose and CsCl density gradient centrifugation as described (32, 33). No conta-
Tnination of the preparations by plasminogen was detected by either Coomassie
Blue staining of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) gels or by treatment with strep-
tokinase and measuring plasmin activity with a chromogenic substrate. $2251.
The sensitivities of these assays excluded plasmin(ogen) contamination of >1%
and >0.4%, respectively. Lp(a)-free LDL (21), HDL (34) and acetylated LDL
(35) were prepared as previously described. The LDL contained no apoA-1 and

 

40005199