Table 5 Role of carboxy-terminal lysines in Lp(a) binding to cells

 

 

Treatment/Competitar Lp(a) Binding
(% Inhibition)
None 0
Carboxypeptidase B 4824
Enolase 4648

 

U937 Cells (1.2 X 10’/m!) were incubated with carboxypeptidase B
(100 Ufml) for 30 min at 37°C. Enolase was used at 10.nM. Lp(a) binding
[10 nM }5]-Lp(a)] to the carboxypeptidase B treated cells or untreated cells in
the presence of enolase was assessed after 150 min at 37°C. % inhibition is
calculated relative lo untreated cells in the absence of inhibitor. The results are
the average of duplicates from two separate experiments.

Table 4), more than could be attributed to inhibition of the plasminogen
receptor-dependent component of binding alone, we predicted that the
gangliosides also might perturb LDL binding to the cells. Indeed, with
'S1-LDL added at 10 nM, its binding to the cells was significantly
inhibited by the same gangliosides that inhibited '*5]-Lp(a) binding.

To assess the contribution of cell surface proteins with carboxy-
terminal lysyl residues to Lp(a) binding, U937 cells were treated with
100 Ufnl carboxypeptidase B (CPB). The conditions of CPB treatment
used were shown previously (51) to produce the maximal reduction in
plasminogen binding. As shown in Table 5, CPB decreased }°1-Lp(a)
binding. In parallel, CPB treatment inhibited !25-plasminogen binding
to the cells by 40-60%, but did not affect J-LDL binding (not
shown). Enolase is a representative of cell surface proteins with car-
boxy-terminal lysines that can serve as plasminogen binding sites (51).
Therefore, we also tested whether enolase would inhibit Lp(a) binding
to cells. As shown in Table 5, 10 nM enolase inhibited '51-Lp(a)
binding by 46.6%.

Discussion

In this study, we have characjerized the direct binding of the intact
and physiologically relevant Lp(a) particle to plasminogen receptors
on monocytoid cells and HUVEC. Indeed, this component of Lp(a)
binding exhibited characteristics very similar to those for plasminogen
binding to these shared sites. Specifically, the binding of both ligands to
their shared sites was divalent ion independent, temperature sensitive
and reversible. The K, of Lp(a) for these sites was ~2 .M, similar to
the K, for plasminogen (52). In addition, the binding of both ligands to
the cells was inhibited by EACA, implicating the lysine binding sites,
contained within the kringle structures of these molecules, in cellular
recognition. Our results contrast with a previous report in which
binding of either biotinylated apo(a) or biotinylated Lp(a) to mouse
P388D.1 cells was not inhibited by plasminogen (23). However, the
integrity of lysine binding sites in the biotinylated molecules, a require-
ment for interaction of Lp(a) with plasminogen binding sites (52), was
not assessed in this report. The capacity of Lp(a) to interact with plas-
minogen receptors is consistent with its inhibition of smooth muscle
cell activation by TGF-B (53), an event dependent upon activation of
the growth factor by cell-bound plasmin (54).

The similarities in Lp(a) and plasminogen binding to cells appears to
extend to the nature of their shared sites. Both non-protein (ganglio-
sides) (50) and cell-surface proteins with carboxy-terminal lysy] resi-
dues (51) are candidate plasminogen receptors. Based on the results
developed in this study, both classes of molecules also are candidate
Lp(a) receptors. Gangliosides inhibited Lp(a) binding to cells, and the

structure-function relationship for this effect was similar to that
previously shown for plasminogen binding to cells. A recent study also
has reported that gangliosides inhibit Lp(a) binding to platelets (20). A
tole for proteins with carboxy-terminal lysyl residues is suggested as
CPB treatment of the cells decreased Lp(a) binding. Enolase is a re-
presentative of this class of binding sites. In addition to its intracellular -
localization, it is found on cell-surfaces, and both the « and 8 isoforms
contain carboxy-terminal lysyt residues and bind plasminogen (51), In
the present study using B-cnolase, Lp(a) binding to cells was inhibited.
Thus, it is most reasonable to assume that several distinct molecular
entities, including multiple proteins with carboxy-terminal lysines, can
serve as Lp(a) as well as plasminogen binding sites.

A distinguishing difference between the interaction of Lp(a) and
plasminogen binding to U 937 cells was in the number of binding sites:
Lp(a) bound to fewer sites than plasminogen. This contrasts to the
similar B,,,, Values determined for apo(a) and plasminogen on endothe-
tal cells (19) and may be due to the inability of the apo(a) moiety
within the large lipoprotein particle to gain access to ali available plas-
minogen binding sites. Alternatively, a subset of plasminogen binding
sites may be incapable of interacting with Lp(a} or may bind the tipo-
rotein particle with very low affinity. In support of this possibility,
EDP Ill, an elastase degradation product of plasminogen containing
kringle 5, inhibits plasminogen but not Lp(a) binding to cells (55).
LDL partially inhibited '*I-Lp(a) binding but had no effect on the
inceraction of plasminogen with the cells. Lp(a) binding to cells was in-
hibited also by LDL, HDL and acetylated LDL. These data indicate that
Lp(a) can interact with non-selective lipoprotein binding sites on cells.
Several studies have demonstrated the existent of such sites on cells.
"5]-LDL binding to both low and high affinity binding sites on skin
ibroblasts is inhibited by HDL, and the binding of '5I-HDL to these
cells is inhibited by LDL (28, 49). A low affinity interaction of LDL
with bovine aortic endothelial cells is also inhibited by HDL (30). Both
HDL and LDL interact with platelets and cross-compete with one
another (29, 31, 56). Our study not only demonstrates that Lp(a) can
bind to these sites but also shows that gangliosides block binding to
these sites, Thus, gangliosides also contribute to these diversely
expressed low affinity lipoprotein binding sites on cells. One possibil-
ity is that gangliosides contribute to lipoprotein and plasminogen
binding in a similar way that heparin contributes to fibroblast growth
factor (FGF) interaction with cells (57). These components may
mediate initia] ligand contact with the cell surface until a more specific
teceptor is encountered.

Finally, the results developed in this study emphasize the comple-
xity of Lp(a) interactions with cells. Our study has identified two
distinct mechanisms of Lp(a) binding to cells. The conditions of our
analyses selected against interactions mediated by the apoB/E receptor
for LDL and the scavenger receptor for modified LDL. Evidence in the
literature (21, 23) suggests, however, that Lp(a) can interact with these
sites and possibly with still other receptors on cells (22). In addition, we
encountered considerable variability in the relative binding of Lp(a) to
plasminogen versus LDL recognition sites. Moreover, for our study, we
have selected for Lp(a) that has a functional lysine binding site(s).
While virtually all-the Lp(a) in the donor plasmas we used did bind to
lysine-Sepharose, Lp(a) can exhibit variable lysine binding properties
(25). Thus, the proportion of the Lp(a) binding to cells that is mediated
by plasminogen receptors may be quite variable. Consistent with this
interpretation are the data from Leerink et al (58) demonstrating Lp(a)
heterogeneity with respect to fibrin binding and our own data (55)
showing that rhesus monkey Lp(a), which does not bind to lysine-
Sepharose, also does not bind to plasminogen receptors on cells. When

 

af

40005204