College of Physicians & Surgeons of Columbia Univers: | New York, N.Y. 10032

DEPARTMENT OF RADIATION ONCOLOGY 630 West 168th Street

Radiological Research Laboratories

(212) 305-9930

 

i

Dec 6, 1988

Dear Dr. Stone,

The Radiation Research Society is holding its thirty-seventh annual
meeting in Seattle, on March 18-23, 1988. The Society is by far the biggest
of its type in the world, and typically has more than 1000 participants at
the annual meeting. One of the sessions, which I have been asked to
organise, is a Workshop on “The Interaction Between Radon Exposure and
Smoking." A brief description of the workshop, and the participants, is
enclosed, the former to be included in the conference program book. In
light of our phone conversation, it would be most helpful and extremely
appropriate if the Council for Tobacco Research could sponsor the seminar,
in terms of a contribution of, say, $2500, towards the travel expenses of
the participants. An appropriate acknowledgement vould, of course, appear
in the conference program.

Closer to home, our own laboratory has been doing a considerable amount
of research into the biological effects of radon in vitro, and is planning
to do some experiments with alpha particles simulating radon daughters and
with tobacco smoke condensate, to look for possible synergistic interactions
- which would imply that the hazard of radon + smoking is larger than the
sum of the hazards from radon alone and smoking alone. Our end point will
be in-vitro oncogenic transformation. As our experience with tobacco smoke
condensate is limited, would you be interested in coming to give us a
seminar - or a more informal discussion - on tobacco research in general?
Our laboratory has a seminar series, and a small honorarium is usual.

 

I enclose our laboratory annual report, and my own ©.V., to give you a
feel for the scope of our activities. Please feel free to give me a call,

With best regards,
. a
. t feet
TP aang iS pRan™
David J. Brenner Ph.D.,

Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology

A

j
|

' sh J Ade

50554660