RCV BY ERIRT EXT. RELATIONS > 7-18-91 :L10:51AM ; 2024.579350> 9197417975; # 3

ere RR sa nt —s

NIOSH CIB
Talking Points
Page 2

o To support the claim of a potential occupational carcinogen,
the CIB relies on the epidemiological atudies using spousal
smoking as an exposure surrogate for ETS, while noting that
most of these studies included "limited or no information"
pertaining to workplace exposures. The spousal data does not
support the allegation:

-- The vast majority of the spousal smoking studies do not
report a statistically significant increase in lung
cancer risk for nonsmokers married to smokers, Only six
ef the 30 published studies (the CIB discusses 21 of
these) report a statistically significant association
from spousal ETS exposure. None of the studies conducted
in the U.S. reported a statistically significant increase
in risk.

-- Tha CIB, in its discussion of the atudies published since
1986 omits several. One of those studies (Wu-Williams),
investigated more cases than all of the studies
specifically examined in the CIB put together. Moreover,
this study reported a atatistically significant negative
relationship between spousal smoking and lung cancer.

-- The claim that exposure to ETS is a cause of increased
risk of cardiovascular disease in nonsmokers is not
convincingly supported by scientific data. Even the 1986
U.S. Surgeon General's report on ETS reported that the
studies on this issue didn't make the case, and this
remains the situation today.

s The CID makes no mantion of BTS's rele in the overall indoor
air quality.

-- By treating ETS separately, NIOSH ignores its own
reporting that ETS is responsible for only 2 percent of
indoor air quality complaints investigated in sick
buildings.

=< The solution isn't to ban smoking or to misrepresent the
scientific foundation for smoking bans. ‘The solutions
are to ventilate properly to remove and/or dilute all
indoor air constituents -- providing comfortable indoor
air for both smokers and nonsmokers.

eTSs LLL@S