RCV BYSRIRT EXT. RELATIONS > 7-18-91 +10:50AM : 20245793507 9197417975: # 2

FILE COPY

 

TALKING POINTS
MIOSH Current Intelligence Bulletin on ETS

Background

The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)
has issued a Current Intelligence Bulletin (CIB) on ETS in the
workplace which concludes ETs is "a potential occupational
carcinogen" and which recommends “exposures be reduced to the
lowest feasible concentration."

The CIB suggests that "exposure to ETS is most efficiently and
completely controlled by simply eliminating tobacco use from the
workplace." Short of a smoking ban, the CIB recommends separate
ventilation for smoking areas.

Responses

° No effort is made in the CIB to assess actual workplace
exposures to ETS, Instead, tha report simply states that 29%
of U.S. adults smoke, that urinary cotinine hag bean observad
in nonsmokers and that respirable suspended particulate
measures support the notion that nonsmokers are exposed in the
workplace.

-- of the eleven epidemiologic studies on ETS that examine
workplace smoking exposure, only one reports a
significant association <-= ten report no such
statistically significant association.

“-- The authors of the one workplace study to report a
statistically significant association suggested in their
report that the association was weak and did not seem to
fall in line with the other conclusions of the study.

- The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
recently argued, in response to an Action on Smoking and
Health law suit seeking an emergency temporary standard
banning workplace smoking, that the data on workplace
exposure is scant, and is insufficient to support an
emergency standard. OSHA's arguments were upheld by the
vis: gourt of Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit.

-~ Several scientific papers, including research undertaken
by the American Health Foundation, have reported that
workplace exposure to ETS is far lower than that found in
the home, The CIB does not even mention this data, let
alone discuss it, though the CIB concedes that "the
relative contributions of work versus home environments
in ETS exposure has not been well quantified."

TT88 LLLOS