PROGRAM SCHEDULE - the implementation schedule can be established once we have the
following:

- resolution to the above issues/any others that are offered up quickly

- estimates and committment dates from YA and I/R for programming work required

- alm dates from agency on materials for mailing #1, mailing #2, what it can mean piece, sample kit
order form (with and without legal rqmts), carton order form, incentive to buy 2 cartons, 12 page
brochure (and tease), bre order envelop, lighting instruction card, letters

~ target definition and quantities for mailout

- quantities for all materials to be produced

- need to evaluate most effective mail window due to holiday clutter

- brand would like to get initial mailings out by year-end for pre-spending purposes; all cells do not
have to be started at the same time

PROGRAM FLOW PROCEDURES - support team decided procedures needed to be documented in
the following areas: phone order handling (including online verification status and ability to distingish
between newspaper ad and pack # inquiry), pid handling, order form handling, backend processing
to keep YA records up-to-date, program reporting :

800# EXPOSURE - the new 9 min. barbara video to be used in cell 1B has the 708-7878 800# on it.
the video label has the pass along to a friend message on it. jackson is investigating what would be
involved to get this number changed to the pack 800#. key Issue: this may drive additional
order/inquiry calls to CR. nancy is aware of this issue and will handle calls to the pack # as inquiry
calls. cell 1B callers get clarification on mailing and how to order, referral callers (video pass along)
will get order form based on verified status if interested.

Address labels - the address label on the outside of the box (cell 1B) and envelop (cell 3) is not
always accurate. this address will also be on the label affixed to the enclosed order form. have we
accomodated the need for recipient to correct address? should we run the ship to addresses thru
code! at YA to confirm a mailable address? will YA compare ship to address and drivers license?
key issue: when customers pay money to receive product, we will want to minimize returns
due to ship to address problems.

mo
te
he
a
a
w
ԩ
ce
Ss