MAIL ORDER PROGRAM ISSUES
11/05/98

SHIPPING COSTS - kay consulting with distribution to determine ideal shipping method and
estimated cost. program requires quick tum around. kay and cary to perform process timing
assessment. key issue: team needs to assess total program turnaround for mailed-in orders
to evaluate customer satisfaction with the program. same assessment needed for phone
orders.

LIMITING PROGRAM SCOPE BY GEOGRAPHY - kay is Investigating the following with tax:

minimum tax stamp order quantity and cost by state, and states which require multiple or complex
stamping requirements. drew is investigating 3rd party age verification on the sdb by state fo assist
in selecting target states. key issue: limiting risk in successfully running a test program where
a new process is employed. keeping costs low for a test program until we can define success
and expand the program on a measured capability basis. brand has agreed with this strategy
and will be consulted on state selection. this will impact the geography for the newpaper ad. need
to coordinate with agency/supplier mailing to ensure they are in mail order test states.

brand has a preliminary target for the cell 1 and 1B mailings:

- san francisco, CA

- suffolk co. NY

- dallas, TX

- denver, CO

these are being reviewed by external relations to identify any issues (alternate targets are: santa
barbara, CA; southern CA; ft. lauderdale, FL; kansas city, MO

brand has a preliminary target for the newspaper ad: detroit, Ml

brand wants to purchase tax stamps for all approved mail order states, ie. if an inquiry or referral
contact comes in, the appropriate order form would ba sent and orders fulfilled.

the program must exclude any area where the product is available at retall....should this be
accomplished by zip code/county?

QUALIFICATION FOR CARTON ORDERS - cell 3 participants will be “authorized” to order a carton
on the first order. all other cells will require the person to order the sample kit before placing a

carton order. a limit of 8 cartons per month must be tracked, and when exceeded proper
disqualification letter sent. key issue: a method needs to be established at YA to determine the
validity of a carton order. as sample kit orders are received, these people will then be
authorized to order a carton. cary will investigate the possibility of developing a list of these
people. we need to confirm the copy on the sample kit order form to ensure participants
understand why their first order is limited and can expect a revised order form in the first mall
order shipment. we also need to confirm the flow of order form fulfillment taking Into
consideration 3rd party age verification status.

EXTENDED USER/PAST RESEARCH PARTICIPANT IDENTIFICATION - this requires work from

the brand to identify those they want to include, follow-up to determine if these names have been
imported from research status to the sdb, and confirmation from I/R on usability of names.

6L6E vezes