(SSUES RESOLVED

DOT APPROVAL FOR LIGHTER - brand has dropped the lighter from the 4 pack sample order. at
this time, brand does not want to pursue sending the lighter out separately from YA. key issue:
would the brand want to get dot approval in anticipation of including the lighter in subsequent
phases of the program. brand is not interested in pursuing approval at this time.

AGENCY/SUPPLIER PARTICIPANTS - need to determine which cell these people belong in. key
issue: don’t know in advance whether they should be offered sample kit or verified to order
cartons. brand suggestion Is to include in cell 2...this would drive screening call volume up.
jute will determine who these people are. the mailing will include a letter and sample kit order form
with legal rqmts. the mailing will be handled outside this program by the brand.

LABELS AND LABEL STOCK - kay to provide sample of existing label stock/packing slip, quantity
on-hand, and approx. “sunk cost’. Decision needs to be made on whether this stock can be used.
key issue: label requirements for outside of shipping container, use on order form to
discourage non-verified orders, and a retum label. support team has determined that existing
stock can be used. return label and outside shipping label are ok. small label on bottom left of form
will be used on order forms to indicate verified status. label! will include PID if known, and YA
customer number. CR will produce similar order form label and affix to verified order forms sent out
by mail as result of phone inquiry.

USE OF PID - use of pid’s to identify those ordering would be desirable. it helps match orders with
consumers on the maillist, increases accuracy of order records on the sdb, and reduces data entry
costs. drew is investigating the complexity involved in passing the pid to be printed on order
materials. key Issue: passing the pid to the label would Involve an extra step in the process
and may not justify added complexity. will not pass order file thru charlie for pid. pid will be on
order form label to indicate verified status. some verified people will not have pid’s initially due to
timing of initial order posting to sdb. drew will update YA records quarterly to ensure accurate pid.

ORDER FORM DESIGN - should we consider producing an order form and price list that is
consistent with what we see from other mail order companies? key issue: consumers are
accustomed to seeing “simple” order forms (no frills). need to evaluate consumer perception
of program cost since they are paying for product (will assume materials costs are built into
the product cost). brand agrees with this approach and the agency will work within these
parameters. 3 order forms will be needed: sample kit with legal, sample kit w/o legal, and carton.

will probably print at print shop...need to consider “color’ coding to ease contro! efforts in sending the
correct order form based on verified status. sample kit order form only sent out via direct mail (cells
4, 1B, 2) and CR phone response. carton order form only sent out via direct mail (cell 3) and GATX.

ORDER DISQUALIFICATION RESPONSE - what verblage? what letterhead? who will write?
brand wants the letter on Eclipse letterhead. jule will consult with cary on defining the dispositions
that will result in disqualification. jule will reach out to cary/lora for assistance in gatting the letter
drafted for review (nancy would like to review). all disqualified orders will be handled via YA
process, ex. If a verified order form with label is marked thru with new name, YA will
bounceback response letter and request to resubmit non-verified order form with DL
regardless of verified status on sdb (which YA has no visibility of).

a
ty
Ne
0
oe
wW
wo
ao
ba