. ° ple yy

RJR Interoffice Memorandum

SUBJECT: R&D Perspective on DATE: November 19, 1987
Blind Product Test
TO: W. M. Hildebolt — FROM: M. F. Dube

The results of a blind product test of fresh aftertaste (FAT) products
were reported on 11/5/87. The management summary provided by MDD is
included as an attachment. The products utilized the recently developed
controlled release pellet technology with a low level of menthol. These
products had measured smoke menthol deliveries of less than 6.5 ug/puff as
compared to approx. 70 ug/puff for Salem Lt. and approx. 45 ug/puff for
Newport. Three low menthol level products were tested, in which pellets
containing 3%, 5% and 7% menthol by weight were inserted in the filter.
No menthol was added via conventional means (i.e. top dressing, filter
flavor). Products were tested among 18 - 49 year old non-menthol Full
Flavor and Full Flavor Low Tar smokers, male and female.

In the FF category, all three products were rated inferior on %70+
acceptance. All three products increased menthol, minty and artificial
taste attributes. As we've seen repeatedly in qualitative work, FF
non-menthol smokers will not accept a product if they can detect menthol.
Further corroboration is provided by an earlier 1987 Concept/Product Test
in which non-menthol smokers were given a concept, stating that "a hint of
menthol" was used in the products. These products were overwhelmingly

rejected.

In the FFLT category, the 5% menthol product was rated parity among total
category and superior among 18 - 24 year old smokers and among smokers
with a high fresh aftertaste ideal. The 3% and 7% menthol products were
rated inferior to the Control among FFLT products with the 3% level
apparently too low and the 7% level too high. For the 5% product, tobacco
taste, strength and harshness attributes were maintained while fresh
aftertaste and cooling aftertaste were increased. Increases in mildness,
menthol, minty and artificial taste were also noticed; however, this
category did not view these attributes negatively as evidenced by the
positive acceptance scores.

These test results are highly encouraging in view of the fact that the

suspected target category for a new product with fresh aftertaste is FFLT,

young adult female smokers. Additionally, the 5% menthol pellet product

was parity among category indicating that its performance was comparable ep

to existing brands. However, it did have the aftertaste improvement S

vehicle which should enhance acceptance in the FFLT category. We expect £
a
Co
ha
©

to have a product with this technology on the market within the next 12
months.