ip /By JUDITH EGERTON
(a ‘arma Writer:

  
  

iS A new Louisville firm said yesterday that

 

duces the health risks of smoking.

That announcement, however, didn’t re-
ceive ao enthusiastic response from tobacco
companies or health officials.

L. Douglas Keeney, president and chief
executive officer of C.A. Blockers Inc, in
Meidinger Tower, said yesterday that the
firm has successfully produced standard-
sized cigarettes containing an additive that

_ Heutralizes the effect of nltrosamines, which
ate carcinogens associated with lung can-
cer.

The product, to be called N-BLOCTIN,
could be available to tobacco companies
this year, Keeney said. But first, tests will
be done on people who smoke the cigarettes
with the implanted additive. In a six-month
test period, bronchial biopsies and ceil
counts will be done on the smokers, he sald,
to determine the product's effectiveness,

Keeney Sald in tests involving laboratary
mice, N-BLOCTIN had proved to be “highly
“effective” In blocking the accumulation of
nitrosamines in the lungs.

The lab work was spearheaded by Dr.
William Waddell, a toxdology specialist and
chairman of the University of Loulsville De-
partment of Pharmacology and Toxicology,
who for years has been researching toxie
effects of tobacco and searching for a com-
pound to prevent the accumulation of car-
cinogens, according {o Arthur Keeney.
Keeney ls a former dean of the UofL

 

The Couri Journal fa .
@f “21-88 (5) a

{| Pa 24

it has produced a cigarette additive that re-”

® Cigarette additive reduces risks
of smoking, firm says

School of Medicine, the father of L. Douglas
Keeney and a company shareholder.

The additive, developed by Waddell, is
composed of a high molecular weight alco-
bol. The test cigarettes with the additive
were developed al the University of Ken-
tucky, Arthur Keeney sald,

“Nitrosamines are the most abundant car-
cinogens In tobacco smoke and are believed
to be a significant factor in smoking-associ-
ated cancer of the lung. We belleve thar N-
BLOCTIN will significantly reduce the ongo
ing risk of ing cancer among cigarette
smokers,” be said.

Olhers aren’t so sure.

“With 4,000 chemicals having been identi-
fied in cigarettes ... you aren't going to
eliminate the health risks of cigarette smok-
jog,” said Dr. Ron Davis, with the US. Of-

fice of Smoking and Health. But, he said,

you could lower the health risk by blocking -

the nitresamtnes.

Dietrich Hoffman, a toxicologist with the
noo-profit American Health Foundation In
New York, said “the concept Is good,” but
he would have to see the data to know If the

development is a true breakthrough. Tobac-. ,

co analyst John Maxwell Jr. doesa't think
the CA. Blockers announcement yesterday
ts Significant for the tobacco industry, It has
Dever been ‘proven that tobacco products
contain carcinogenic. substances, he said,
The additive “Isn't gatag to get very far wun
the tobacco industry because they feel there
isn’t anything to block,” he said.

 

A spokeswoman for R.J, Reyna
olds Tobacco Co. sald more work
needs to be done before scientists

_ Can evaluate the additive,

Keeney said the additive would
not be subject to approval from the
federal Food and Drug Administra-

‘tion because it's a cigarettereiated

product and the FDA doesn't regu-
late clgaretes.

. Keeney, 36, worked In markeUng
at Brown & Williamson for about
three years. He and seven ‘other
shareholders formed CA. Blockers
legs than two year ago after they
acquired the patent and research
work for the technology that neu-
trallzes nltrosamines from Waddell
and Carolyo Marlowe, a medical
school research associate married
to Waddell.

The company, which has no tles
to any tobacco company, went pub-
lic in October, Keeney sald. Yester-

day, the stock closed unchanged at

624 cents a share jn overthe-count-
er trading.

sv9z691LL0e

(©) OG1424