whe

There must, therefore, be other causes to explain in apite of these relationships,
the very heavy increase of bronchiel carcinoma in Austria, It 4s possible that
4n different countries other methods of cultivation and other tobacco manufacture
ing methods are in use. For example, Doll and Hi11 guess that different insecti-
cides are used for spraying tobacco leaves, In other words, as every smoker
lmows, cigarettes are not alike, This may possibly be a reason for the different
effects on the bronchial mucous membranes _ ,

The principle established by the American authors, namely that the possibility
of the development of a bronchial carcinoma increases with the amount of tobacco
a person 4s consuming does not apply for Austria. The quelity of the tobacco is
undoubtedly of decisive significance, Quite recently English authors have re- ..
ported on their investigations on carcinogenic substances ia city air. In experi-
ments extending over several years, in which they filtered air, Goulden and
Kennaway have found that the inhabitants of large cities inhale 0.5 mg. of arsenic
per year, This quantity corresponds to the inhaled smoke of 100 cigarettes.
During the winter the arsenic content of the air is twice as large as during

the sumer, These amounts are not large enough to be considered ag the sole
cause of bronchial carcinoma, For this reason the authors ascribe to the arsenic
content of the city air at best, a supplementary effect. = - -

Waller has similarly made an investigation of the benzopyrene content of city
air and he found 14.7 per 100 cc, of inhaled air. He found the figures four
times as high during fog, and there is more bensopyrene in the air in the

winter than in the summer, The source of benzopyrene is according to Waller

mainly coal heating in apartments, but also the exhaust gasses of motors, 6s-
pecially diesel motors.

The second problem which I would like to discuss is that of early diagnosis.
Every carcinoma goes through a silent asymptomatic period. It would be very
4mportant to be able to operate on the patients in thie estate, Unfortunately,
thia is only very rarely the case, Ochsner observed this in only 0.9% of his
cases. We found this in 5.4% of our patients; the latter 4Snelude seven cases

in which during the post-mortem examination of patients who had died from some
other disease, & bronchial carcinoma was found which had given rise to no
symptoms, Table 3 enumerates our asymptomatic carcinoriata and their opsrability:

- Table

Al silent bronchial carcinomata

8 distant metastases as first symptom

8 patients refused operation

7 secondary observations in post-mortens
9 exploratory thoracotomies (not oparsole)
9 radical operations

If the eight patients who refused to be operated on had been operable, which
seems very probable according to the clinical findings -~ they declared they
felt completely healthy -- 17 of the 41 silent carcinomata would have been
operated on radically; this-is a little lees than half, We have at times found
very well advanced peripheral carcinomata which had caused either no or no
observable troubles. However,- among the silent carcinomata were almost as many
central as peripheral cases, :