~6-

When projecting a further course of action, the results of heart and lung function
tests are of importance. Patients with coronary insufficiency in general do not
respond too well to a pneumonectomy. The function and capacity of the right
ventricle must be determined exactly, The veritol test or the pressure measure-
ments with the heart catheter will give the desired information, In the cases

of latent insufficiency of the right heart, a preliminary treatment of sufficient
duration is indicated, ,

The vital capacity should be determined in spite of its limited value. Becsuse,
together with the breath-holding test, the evaluation of the enlargement of the
thorax during inspiration and the determination of the mobility of the diaphregn,
this determination of the vital capacity nevertheless gives scme suitable in-
dications as to whether or not an operation is indicated,

In the Glinic, Wenzl and Strahberger, together with the Assistant of the
Physiological Institute, Dr. Auerswald, have worked out the bronchial blocking
test, By blocking the main bronchus which is diseased, this part of the lung is
eliminated from the oxygen-supply work, The oxygen content of the circulating
blood is determined either according to the photo-electric method of Dramer or
with an oxymeter, With a well-functioning second lung, there is within a few
seconds after the closing of the main bronchi, a significant decrease of the
oxygen content of the blood, which lasts, however, only a few seconds, If the
lung functions defectively, there is -- especially with emphysematic patients --
a longer time during which the low oxygen values are maintained, This time
varies, depending on the degree of the disfunction; however, the low values are
maintained much longer than with a healthy lung, :

At the present time we are unable to judge to what extent any investigations using
the Knipping apparatus can give any answers as to the expected function of the

remaining lung. These investigations are in process in the Second Medical Clinic |

of Prof, Fellingers, The doctors who are working on this problem are somewnet
skeptical whether the results can be used for an indication whether or not to
operate, :

Statistics: Up to May 31, of 1952, 1,145 patients with bronchial carcinoma were
received in the clinic. 612 were declared to be inoperable as a consequence of
the clinical investigation, For 533 patients, the feasibility of an operation
was indicated, Of these, 252 carcinoma showed themselves to be inoperable, 261
could be operated radically, Expressed in percentages these figures read as
follows: 53.4% were primarily inoperable; an indication for the feasibility. of
the operation was given in 46.6%, Of these, 52,7% could be radically operated.
Of ali bronchial carcinoma investigated, the proportion of radical operations was
only 24.5% Table 4 summarizes the results of the operations.

Table 4°
Operation because of bronchial carcinoma, 1947--to May 31, 1952

Operation ~ Number Died shortly Died Jater - Presently
. pfter operation : Living _
Pneunonectomies 241 47 - 75 219
Lobectomies 40 6 12 22
Exploratory thoracotomies_252 25, 187. 42.
TOTAL 533 7 2714 181

Z0Z9 9BLOS