“Se

Overholt was more fortunate than we in the operability of asymptomatic tumors.

He was able to operate 100% radically and 25% of these had no deposits in the

lymphatic glands, We must therefore, strive to discover the bronchial carcinomata

_ gag much as possible in the asymptomatic stage, This is theoretically possible
‘through a series of X-ray examinations; there are, however, many practical

difficulties, Fluoroscopic examinations gave the following results (quoted

according to Ochsner):

Scamman found among 536,012 people examined, 43 silent bronchial carcinomata
(1 ca.:12,000). Boucot found among 156,920 people examined, 34 malignant
Jung processes (1 ca,:5,000), Among 40,607 industrial workers, Boucot dir=
covered 0.14% bronchial carcinoma (1 ca.:174). This indicates a considerably
higher susceptibility in industrial workers than in other professions,

Among our patients we had about the same number of manuel as intellectual
workers, Periodic x-ray examinations should therefore always be made in
order to discover silent foci in the lungs of adults, especially men, when
ever financially feasible, because there is always a danger of lung cancer.
At least, men over 40 or 45 years, should undergo a thorax fluoroscopy
every six months during a health check-up,

Regarding the diagnosis of lung carcinoma in general, wo are placing most
emphasis on tomography and bronchoscopy. Bronchoscopy is only used when
photographs in layers do not give an unequivocal picture. This is only re-
latively rarely the case, The evaluation of tomographic pictures requires a
great deal of practice and experience. All indications regarding findings
which may be used in diagnosis can be found in the chapter on x-ray diagnosis
of the roe on bronchial carcinoma just published by our clinic (Salzer
and co-workers). . .

Bronchoscopy is used in all cases of central and many cases of peripheral - ;
carcinoma, It is important and absolutely necessary that all doctors who work
in thorax-surgical station master the technique of bronchoscopy. In 62.6% of
the cases investigated, the tumor could be seon, In 46.2% a positive micro-
scopie finding was made. In 22.2% of the cases, characteristic indirect
indications of the presence of a carcinoma were found,

The cytological examination of the sputum or the bronchial scrapings is only
made in cases which are questionable, The results, even according to the method
of Papanicolaou are unreliable, They can at best strengthen or weaken the
argument in the case of positive or negative findings, but they do not prove
anything, :

Whenever there is a suspicion of a focus of carcinoma in the lung, an exploratory
thoracotomy is indicated. X-ray examinations at short intervals such as every
two weeks are only permissible in exceptional circumstances, Like other authors,
we have observed that the focal shades decrease or may remain stationary for
weeks or even months, although a carcinoma was present as show by operation,

Diagnostic mistakes are possible even with an exploratory thoracotomy when a
biopsy is shown to be impossible, In 4.3% of the cases the palpation diagnosis
during the operation was wrong, For this reason an exploratory excision should
be made whenever possible. :

Loz9 9810s