{ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY

 

BERKELEY * DAVIS + IRVINE * LOS ANGELES * RIVENSIDE * SAN DIECO » SAN FRANCISCO

  
 

SANTA BARBARA * SANTA CRUZ

DEPARTMENT OF MOLECULAR AND CELL BIOLOGY 401 BARKER HALL
BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA 94720-0001
BAX X ARES HAS
June 7, 1993
Dr. David Doolittle
Manager Cellular/Molecular Biology Division
Research & Development

Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102

Dear David:

I enjoyed talking to you about our work at the ICEM meeting in Melboume. I am convinced
from our work that a low antioxidant level in semen is a major risk factor for damage to sperm DNA
and consequent birth defects and childhood cancer in offspring. Since smoking is a very efficient way
to lower antioxidant levels, I expect that smoking will primarily damage sperm DNA through that
mechanism. Our review of the epidemiology appears to bear this out. I enclose our Pittsburgh paper,
where we make this case. We will continue this work to make the case as strong as we can. If
smoking is only working through lowering antioxidants then supplementation with antioxidants should
reverse all of the deleterious effects on the next generation. I think this is extremely important to know
and I am committed to finding it out. ,

If you wish to collaborate with us by collecting sperm samples from smokers and non-smokers
in your company that would be very useful in speeding up the study as it is hard for us to find smokers
locally. If you wish to add in a group of smokers of your presumptive safe cigarette to compare to
regular smokers and non-smokers, we would be agreeable to that. That might benefit you and would
not be much extra work for us. If you are interested in this type of collaboration and would agree to
unimpeded publication of the results, however they came out, we would be enthusiastic about going
ahead. We would finance our end and you would do the same on your end. We believe that this is
work that will have a major impact on health and that it is extremely important to do as soon as

possible.
Your letter was quite convincing that the government is not subsidizing tobacco farmers.

Tee
\ Ze

Bruce N. Ames
Professor of Biochemistry

ang/Mol Biolo
() |
Andrew J y ‘Obek

Biology Division
Lawrence Livermore National
Laboratory

 
  
     

BNA/AJW:ck
Enclosure

Eber Trtre¢