University of Colorado at Boulder . : yee

Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology — . : - Age a.

Graduate Student Symposium Committee
Porter Biosciences Building

Campus Box 347

Boulder, CO 80309-0347 .

(303) 492-2259 -

email: smohr@beagle.colorado. edu :

October 31,1995

Dear George Hashim,

The graduate students in the Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology are hosting a symposium entitled: Pattern and Polarity: Establishing
Difference in Development. It will be held April 12-14, 1996.: This symposium will
explore the ways both:single celled organisms and multicellular organisms establish axes
and pattern for asymmetric cell division and embryonic development, and will include
discussion of organisms as diverse as bacteria, yeast, algae, nematodes, insects, and
vertebrates. This letter i is: written to request financial assistance for our graduate student
symposium.

This will be the sixteenth symposium organized by the graduate students in MCD
Biology.: A unique feature of this event is that it is organized and run entirely by
graduate students from our department. These symposia allow us.to interact with
prominent scientists from diverse disciplines one-on-one, and introduce us to. deeper .
insights into many important questions facing biologists today. These symposia also |
serve to enliven the scientific atmosphere of the region by bringing-prominent biologists
from around the world to Boulder,

In the past, the Graduate Student Symposium has been made possible by generous
donations from biotechnology companies, from companies that:do business with
researchers in the Boulder area, and from others interested in biology. The total cost of.
the symposium, the majority of which is used for transportation and lodging of the -
speakers, is estimated at 15,000 dollars. Past contributions have ranged from 500 to
3500 dollars. -Any contribution would be greatly appreciated, and acknowledged both at
the symposium and in the symposium program which is given to each attendee.

Enclosed please find a tentative schedule for this year’s symposium, as well as schedules
from past symposia. A member of the Graduate Student Symposium Organizing .
Committee will be contacting you by phone to discuss this request. We-would like to.
thank you for your time and effort, and hope that t you are as excited about this year’s
symposium as.we are.

Sincerely,

I Bhan Ze
Stephanie Mohr
Brian Lu |
Heather R. Flanagan
Dominique Bergmann

checks payable to: Regents of the Univ. of Colorado/MCDB