PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Willie Houck Date: December 3, 1992
From: Counts, Wrenn, Nichols: yol—

Subject: Project 2703 Weekly Summary #

I. Cartridge Development

Additional handsheets of 10% TiO. paper were received’ from the Paper Technology.
Group. Extra handsheets of 10% CaCO, paper were requested today, as there is some question
about the acceptability of TiO, in overwraps. Both paper types had better opacity than the
innerwrap-type paper now being used.

Severali samples of coated mat perforated to different porosities at K-C were
received. K-C’s hole pattern is more widely spaced than the pattern used in the present
cartridges. Controll cartridges without perforated mat, cartridges with the lab perforated
mat, and cartridges from the four levels of K-C perforated mat are being prepared for
machine.smoking TPM delivery.

A secondiset of samples has been machine smokedito compare effects of lab
perforation vs no mat perforation, laminated vs unlaminated calendered. overwrap, and
calendered vs uncalendered' laminated overwrap (P9TS innerwrap), TPM was greater with
perforated mat. There was only a marginal difference between laminated and unlaminated
calendered' papers. For this particular paper, calendering also improvedidelivery slightly.
Calendering would have less of an effect with lower porosity overwraps. These data support
the need: for mat perforation, the degree of perforation needed should be better known. after
smoking the K-C set of perforated samples.

IJ. Heater Development

Heater fixtures with a center needle and fixtures with a force-fit seal in place of

the.o-ring seal are being evaluated. The details of this work are included in Mike Watkin’s
weekly summary.

I. Kimberly-Clark

A production min to produce base mat was made in the KC mill located in Ancram, NY
(Nov 30/Dec 1). The purpose of this run was two fold: 1) to produce mat using commercial
equipment and 2) produce sufficient mat for machine startup through Phase II testing. Even
though: KC eliminated many of the problem areas in the production line prior to the run

gt99eT0zZ02