Visible Sidestream Smoke Measurement Page 2
Joe Inman
January 24, 1985

PRODUCT COMPARISON

The 52 products were compared using Duncan’s Multiple Range Test. As noted
above, the comparisons were run twice: once, assuming the two devices were
indistinguishable, and, again adjusting the values to account for the es-
timated device differences.

The comparisons assuming indistinguishable devices are summarized in
Table 1. The comparisons after adjusting for the estimated device
difference* is summarized in Table 2. In both Tables 1 and 2, lines between
products indicate that no significant difference between those products was
found. For instance, in Table 1, a line comects NFO-352B, NFO-352E,
NFO-353B, and NFO-353C, so those products cannot be distinguished on the
basis of the data. However, no line connects NFO-353C and NFO-351B, so
those products are distinguishable.

The primary goal of the study was to determine which of the prototype
products give off less visible sidestream smoke than any other products on
the market. Six of the prototype products gave off significantly less
sidestream smoke than any of the commercial products that were tested.
Those were NFO-352B, NFO~352E, NFO-353B, NFO-353C, NFO-351B, and NFO350E.
That is indicated in both Tables 1 and 2. Note that even though NFO-351C
has a reading that is less than any of the commercial products, due to
measurement error, it cannot be distinguished from NOW Box 100’s (which is
coded as "NOW 100S" in the Tables).

SUMMARY

This memorandum has summarized the statistical analysis of visible
sidestream smoke measures that were run on 52 products. Since the measures
were made on two different measurement devices, a comparison of the two
devices was also run. The primary goal of the study was to determine which
of the prototype products differed in visible sidestream smoke from all of
the market products that were tested.

* The absorbance values obtained on the original machine were adjusted by
the estimated difference between the two measurement devices. The variance
was also adjusted to take account of the variance associated with estimating
the mean difference between machines. That added about 7% to the estimated
standard deviation. The standard deviation was inflated in this scenario on
all comparisons even though it need only have been inflated on those
“comparisons involving products that were measured on different machines.
That will have the effect that fewer significant differences will be found
than would be otherwise.

 

 

SLOL STé6ag