RJR R&D Statistical Support InterOffice Memorandum

SUBJECT: Visible Sidestream Smoke Measurement DATE: January 24, 1985

 

TO: Joe Inman FROM: Michael J. Morton

Brand R&D

INTRODUCTION

Sidestream smoke measurements were taken on 52 products: 11 prototype
products, 16 ultra low tar products, and 25 top brands. The measurements
were made by Becky Dunn and John Aldridge. The sidestream smoke measures
reported were visible absorbance values. Each number reported is the
average of 3 readings. Two different devices were used to make the
sidestream smoke measures. Forty-five products were measured on one device
and the remaining 7 were measured on the other. Some products, a monitor
product and NOW 85, were smoked on both machines to assess differences in
the two devices, and to monitor the machines’ performance.

The primary goal of the study was to determine which of the ll prototype
products give off less visible sidestream smoke than all of the 41 commer-
cial products. Additionally, a comparison was made of the two measurement
devices and the visible sidestream smoke values for all products in the
study were compared.

I will first deseribe the results of a comparison between the two measure-
ment devices and then I will describe the comparison that was made among the
52 products.

DEVICE COMPARISON

An analysis of variance on the two measurement devices showed an average
difference of about .0178 visible absorbance units between the two machines.
(The newer machine read about .0178 lower than the original machine.) That
difference was not quite significant at the .05 level (it yielded a p-value
of .060). So there is some indication of a difference between the two
machines, but it is not statistically significant at the standard level.
The difference was relatively constant for both types of cigarettes that
were used to monitor the machines. The difference was .0185 units for the
so-called Monitor product (whieh had an average absorbance of about +75) and
-0170 units for NOW 85 (which had an average absorbance of about .54).

In the next section, comparisons are made between the products, both assum-

ing that the two devices are indistinguishable, and after adjusting for the
estimated device difference. The conclusion about which prototypes are dis-
tinguishable from the other products is not changed according to which as-
sumption is made.

8£04 STé6Qag