be

“
+
Grant Application No. 1959. Reviewer: Dr.D. H. Bowden
Kenneth B, Adler, Ph.D.

include PGF,_, PGE, and PGE,. Furthermore he will attempt to determine the
effects of éfese atachidonate metabolites on the cellstsystem. Subsequently
he will look at the action of pharmacologic inhibitors of the lipoxygenase
system. Similarly the effect of scavengers of oxygen-free radicals will be
looked at.

4. Does phosphoinositide hydrolysis affect the secretory response of PAF?

Detailed descriptions of the experimental methods are given.

THE INVESTIGATOR:

Dr. Adler is a 41-year-old Ph.D., an Assistant Professor at the
University of Vermont. His bibliography is concerned almost exclusively with
lung injury and repair and in the last 3 or 4 years this has been concerned
mainly with pulmonary fibrosis and he has very few articles relating to the
specific topic under consideration. The last papers on this topic were
published with Dr. Craighead in 1981 and 1982. He received support from C.T.R.
until 1985 but, based on relatively low productivity, his application for
further funding was denied in October, 1985.

CRITIQUE:

The present application is not too dissimilar from the one denied
in 1985, The cell system which has been developed is certainly very interesting
and probably easier to manipulate than the in vitro organ culture system
previously used. Although the technology is available, and this is described
in detail, what is less obvious is the basic rationale for the experiments.
Platelet derived factors which are chemotactic and mitogenic and.as stated -here
secretogenic, are of considerable importance in the modulation of inflammatory
responses. What is less clear from reading the protocol is the relevance of
platelet-activating factor to the surface secretion of mucin in the upper
respiratory tree, I have the distinct impression of an investigator with a
system who is looking for uses for the system. This seems to be the reverse
of what is required with good science in which questions and hypotheses are
developed and a methodoldgy is developed to suit the questions. What is proposed
here therefore is a series of observational experiments in which certain
correlations may be determined but.I am not convinced that we will learn very
much about the basic mechanisms involved in lipoxygenase activation of cellular
lipids which lead to intracellular secretory activity. For this reason, although
the system is elegant and some of the questions posed may be important, I
cannot give this application my enthusiastic support. :

RECOMMENDATION:

Approval but not with high priority.

50258032