4/8/86 CC; DRS. JACOBSON, SOMMERS

GRANT APPLICATION NO. 1959. , REVIEWER: DR. D. H. BOWDEN

APPLICANT: Kenneth B. ADLER, Ph.D. University of Vermont
Burlington, VT

TITLE: "Mechanisms of Platelet-Activating Factor Stimulation of
Respiratory Mucin Secretion"

BROAD GOALS OF THE PROJECT:

Dr. Adler who works in the Department of Pathology at the University
of Vermont has used a rodent tracheal explant system for a number of years.
He is interested in mediators of the asthmatic response and the mediators
of mucin secretion.

HYPOTHESIS:

Platelet-activating-factor (PAF) increases the secretion of mucin
by binding to specific cell surface receptors activating hydrolysis of
membrane phosphoinositides and therefore stimulating metabolism of
arachidonic acid within respiratory secretory cells.

1. He wishes to characterize the stimulation of mucin secretion induced
by exposure to PAF.

2. To determine whether or not specific cell surface receptors for PAF
are involved.

3. To determine the contribution of arachidonic acid and its metabolites
to PAF-induced mucin secretion.

4, To determine whether or not metabolism of phosphoinositides is involved
in the secretory response to PAF.

EXPERIMENTAL METHODS:

In conjunction with colleagues at the W. Alton Jones Cell Laboratory
he has developed an in vitro system in which dissociated cells from guinea
pig:trachea are found to differentiate into a pseudostratified columnar
epithelium virtually identical to that in intact tissue with ciliated,
goblet and basal cells maintained in the same orientation. This is the
model he proposes to'use for his PAF studies.

1. The first experiments will determine the concentration-response
relationship between PAF and mucin secretion in the cell culture system.

2. Specific receptor antagonists of PAI will be added to cell cultures at
equimolar concentrations and the effects on mucin secretion monitored.

3. Media will be assayed for specific metabolites of arachidonic acid
after exposure to stimulatory concentrations of PAF. Expected products

 

50258031