4

There are other linkages in lignin that mke it a 3-dimensional polymer,
Sugar molecules are attached at various points. Some structural units
possess the syringic instead of vanillic type structure.

CH

HO C~

CH.0
3
CHROMATOGRAPHIC STUDY OF SOME CONSTITUENTS OF COFFEE
Paper by R. L. Clements and F. E. Deatherage
Ohio State versit

Brewed coffee was separated into (1) acidic, (2) neutral carbonyl, (3)
acidic carbonyl, and (4) amino acid fractions. Fractions 2 and 3 were
stabilized by conversion to the 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazones. Paper chroma-
tograms were then prepared from each fraction. The acidic fraction yielded
10 spots; caffeic acid and 3 isomers of chlorogenic acid were indicated,
The neutral carbonyl fraction yielded 14 spots; furfural and vanillin were
identified. The acidic carbonyl fraction yielded 9 spots; unidentified.
The amino acid fraction yielded 9 spots; 4 were tentatively identified as
aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine and hydroxyproline.

F,

 

The author of the paper stated that the procedure used had also been
found applicable to a study of the components of tobacco.

IDENTIFICATION OF CERTAIN CONSTITUENTS OF ODOR OF IRRADIATED MEAT

G.
Paper by L. P. Herk et al. of the Quartermaster Research and
Development Center

A study was made of meat that had an off-odor because of radiation
sterilization. The mechanics of this research is of interest, because of
its possible adaptation to a study of the volatile constituents from tobacco.

Volatile compounds were pumped out of the meat and collected in 3 suc-
cessive cold traps, kept at -24°, ~110°, and -196°, The contents of each
trap was examined with a mass spectrograph, and then further subdivided by
gas chromatography. The first trap contained water. The second contained
8 sulfides and disulfides. The -196° trap contained methyl to pentyl) mercaptans,

9 aldehydes, methyl ethyl ketone, benzene, 4 alkyl benzenes, C02, CO, methanol,
ethanol, propylene, pyrrole, pyridine and aniline.
The large number of compounds actually identified from the ~196° trap

shows (1) the usefulness of a trap this cold for collecting these components,
and (2) indicates the value of gas chromatography for their separation,

2240 19005