2

C,___ CONTENT OF METALS IN CIGARETTE SMOKE

One evening was spent talking to a former faculty member of the University
of Virginia, Dr. Everett C. Cogbill. One of Dr. Cogbill's duties at Virginia
for 7.5 years was instructor in microanalysis. (I preceded him in this position.)

Early this year, Dr. Cogbill left the University of Virginia and began

. research on tobacco smoke under Dr. Hobbs at Duke University. This work, sup-
ported by the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, consisted of determining the content
of metallic ions in 70 mm, cigarettes, and in the mainstream smoke from these
cigarettes. The total content of metals in the smoke from one cigarette was
150 micrograms, The percentage transfer of each metal from the tobacco to the
smoke was:

Fe 0.014% Ca 0.0003 (estimate)
Al 0.003 Mg 0.001

Cu 0.45 K 0.51

an 0.58 Na 0.95

Pb 4.7 Mn Less than 0,02

This work by Hobbs and Cogbill will be published.

Beginning October 1, Dr. Cogbill will work for the American Tobacco
Company. One of his first duties will be to set up and supervise a modern
laboratory for microanalysis.

Unless or until it is ever found that cations of metals are beneficial
in tobacco smoke, it seems safe to assume that they are undesirable. Conse-
quently any cation added to tobacco should be one that does. not appear in
appreciable quantity in the smoke, and should be Ca or Mg, for example, and
not Na, K, Pb, Zn, or Cu.

D, __ PLANT. TOURS

A plant tour of the Wheaton Glass Company yielded little or no informa-
tion of use to the tobacco industry. The silk screen process, partly devel-
oped by Wheaton, for printing on round glass and plastic bottles might possibly
have some application to printing on foil.

A more interesting tour was through the L. N. Renault & Sons winery. The
various steps were seen from pressing grapes, through a natural fermentation
without additives and then 3 years of aging to finished wine. The fermentation
and aging take place in wooden casks. As CO escapes, the volume of the wine
becomes less. Wine from smaller casks is added in order to keep all containers
full and air excluded; this prevents alcohol from oxidizing to acetic acid.
During the aging, two undesirable products are eliminated. A sludge of dead
ferment settles, and a crystalline tartrate deposits on the sides and bottom
of the casks,

The Renault New Jersey wine is not sold as such, but is further processed
to champagne and the red analogue of champagne, sparkling burgundy. Yeast and

0240 9005