3

FUGACITY OF AROMATIC MATERIALS FROM SUGAR SOLUTIONS

H.
Paper by Herstein, Davis and Kononenko of Herstein Laboratories
and Henry B, Hass of the Sugar Research Foundation
The aroma of a food such as a fruit syrup is enhanced by the addition
of sugar. The sugar actually increases the fugacity or volatility of the

flavor components,

In a model experiment, the volatility of n-heptaldehyde was determined
from water, from a known glucose solution and from a sucrose solution of
similar concentration. An inert gas was passed through each solution and
then assayed for heptaldehyde content. The same volume of gas removed only
a fraction of a gram (?) of the aldehyde from the water solution, but removed
1.92 g. from the glucose solution and 3.42 g. from the sucrose solution, Thus
(at 30°) sucrose has twice the "sugaring out" effect of glucose; this is at-

tributed to its greater solubility.

I. ISOLATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF FERMENTATION STEROIDS
Paper by E, Vischer of Ciba, Ltd.

Basel, Switzerland

Steroids are extracted from fermentation broth by means of an organic
solvent, Fatty impurities can be removed by solution of the steroids in
90% methanol, and extraction of these impurities with petroleum ether. The
steroids can be split into groups by countercurrent distribution, using
benzene and 30% ethanol. The addition of an oxygen atom at the 1l-position
by the fermentation mold renders these molecules more polar and makes possible
the separation by countercurrent distribution. Steroids can also be separated
by chromatography. Final purifications are by crystallization.

Four major methods are used for the differentiation of the steroids.
These are (1) ultra violet spectra, (2) a yellow color with sodium hydroxide
solution, (3) a test with blue tetrazolium, which indicates the ~CO-CH20H

grouping, and (4) a test with phosphoric acid, which indicates a double bond

in conjugation with a keto group.
J. BETA AND GAMMA CELLULOSE. A ORITICAL EXAMINATION OF SOME FACTORS

INFLUENCING THEIR DETERMINATION
Paper Otto Goldschmid and J Jeffe Ra er, Ine

The classical method for the determination of B- and /~cellulose consists
of dissolving both in aqueous alkali, followed by neutralization to cause the
B-cellulose to precipitate. This method is inaccurate because of the precipi-
tation of various amounts of y-cellulose along with the Bp. A newer and more
accurate method, based on solubility alone, is discussed in this paper. A
sample of the cellulose is leached with 10% sodium hydroxide; both p- and 7-

 

C20 '9005