accepted for presentation at the Tenth International Mass
Spectrometry Conference, Swansea, Wales, Sept. 9-13, 1985.

e Correlation Study of RJR Standards - The Cigarette Test Lab

performed cross checks of all RJR standards for physical
measurement of cigarettes and filters to determine the mea-
surement consistency at all locations. The standards that
were checked are used to calibrate test equipment in 59
locations, including 26-1 Quality Assurance and all Q.A. test
stations located in the factory. These data are being
statistically evaluated.

e Waste Filter Disposal - In response to a suggestion, a

hydraulic press was modified and installed for trial in the
Filter Area for compacting strip cans of waste filters. This
should reduce the number of cans used from 30 to 10 per month.
An update will be given when the evaluation is complete.

e Future Systems Development - A HP 1000 A-Series system has

been assembled with an A600 computer, 7945 disc, 9144 car-
tridge tape, printer and console. The A System software
supports multiuser, multitasking, spooling, program segmenta-
tion and CI file management. The newest generation for HP
data acquisition systems, it will be used for evaluation and
development of future laboratory applications.

e Electrostatic Precipitation System - Development work has
begun on an electrostatic precipitation system for collecting
smoke particulate matter. This system will be utilized for
studying elemental composition of smoke. Preliminary tests
indicate a trapping efficiency similar to that of the pad

method.

e R&D Personal Log Book Design - We have developed a design for

a new Personal Log for use by R&D staff in place of the
laboratory notebook as a vehicle for recording ideas. A proof
of the new books has been examined and the printer's design
meets our requirements. Copies have been ordered for dis-
tribution to interested R&D staff. The books should be
available by early summer.

Of /2—-
——.. H. Piehl

xe: Dr. W. M. Hildebolt
Dr. R. E. Morse
Dr. Alan Rodgman
Mr. J. D. Phillips
Mr. B. V. Hardin

-~DrwsAvce-W+-Hayes=-

Dr. C. E. Teague, Jr.
Mr. W. D. Dahne
Mr. L. L. Bass, III
Mr. T. H. Eskew
R&D Technical Services Mgrs.

eee aE

68lh E£nO0S