PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A. O

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE .
JAN 3 0 92

Richmond, Virginia
OES

To: Distribution Date: January 29, 1992
From: J. I. Seeman. eyo 2emn—

Subject: Annual Accomplishments *

The Chemical Applications Section of the Chemical Research Division consists of
two projects, Inorganic Synthesis led by Ken Podraza and Organic Synthesis led by Yoram
Houminer. The reorganization which led to the current reporting system within CRD occurred
in July 1991. Please review the attached highlights of the annual accomplishments in.
preparation for the Annual Review Meeting to be held next Wednesday, February 5, 1992, at 10
am in Al Conference Room.

Both projects, together, provide fundamental and applied core technologies in
areas of organic, inorganic, physical, environmental, thermal and analytical chemistry, in
addition to separation science, sensory technology, tobacco alkaloid chemistry and
pharmacology, and to lesser extent, in the areas of radiolabelled synthesis, materials
science, paper technology, and encapsulation chemistry.

The Inorganic Chemistry project has devoted the major portion of its 1991 effort
to the development of novel, proprietary inorganic fillers which, when incorporated into
paper and cigarettes, results in significantly reduced visible sidestream smoke with
acceptable subjectives and ash:characteristics. In addition, this project has participated
in the development of technologies for use in various environmental issues which face our
manufacturing facilities.

The Organic Chemistry project has participated in the development of a stable
menthol delivery product as well as in the development of materials which will reduce the
irritation percepts of sidestream smoke, primarily in the «-hexylcinnamaldehyde (HCA)
release area. In the last few months, the project has begun to investigate the chemistry of
various Cast Leaf, NBL, and related processes. In particular, the rate of pectin release,
the effect of particle size on sheet parameters, and alternative binders are being examined.

ry

C92-03077

S2SS2PT2Z02