May 28, 1987

TO: R. M, Sanders

FROM: M. H. Heflin

RE: WINSTON Packaging Focus Group

This forwards for your review the Brand's perspective on the WINSTON
packaging focus groups held in Tampa on May 11 and 12,

Background

The objective of the groups was to evaluate franchise and competitive
smokers' perceptions of pack designs developed for Project Eagle. Focus
groups had been held previously (March 25, 26) in Atlanta to identify
ownable elements of the current packaging that could be leveraged or
refined, With this direction, KNT Plusmark developed new packaging
designs for WINSTON. It was a selection of these refined designs that
were tested in Tampa. The information from these latest groups will be
utilized by Brand to provide further developmental direction in the
development of a design for quantitative testing and test market
introduction in 1/88,

Methodology

Two franchise and three competitive focus groups were held:

@ Male WINSTON smokers, 35 - 49 years old
e Female WINSTON smokers, 35 - 49 years old

e Female Marlboro smokers, 21 ~- 34 years old
@ Male Marlboro smokers, 21 ~ 27 years old
e@ Male Marlboro smokers, 28 ~ 34 years old

Current packs were evaluated against five new concepts. Four of the new
designs were very close to current packaging, while one "further out"
design was shown to see how large a change was acceptable. One set of
packs had identical designs in the Full Flavor, except a black vs. a red
logo. Another set of packs had the same design in the Full Flavor,
except one was current WINSTON red while the other was a Marlboro red.

Implications
e Change is acceptable to the franchise. Overall the franchise

groups reacted very favorably to the new designs. In fact, more
radical change than would seem prudent was viewed positively by the
franchise groups. The bottom line seems to be that WINSTON's
franchise is essentially apathetic to their packaging. As aptly
expressed by one participant: "WINSTON would still be WINSTON to
me even if they wrapped them in a brown paper bag." The major
concern expressed by the franchise was market recognition: they
want to be able to quickly recognize and pick up their WINSTONS,

S088 6Izo0s