R. M, Sanders -
May 28, 1987
Page 4

Lights: Competitive and franchise smokers preferred the lighter
gold (champagne) tones over the current copper-gold Lights color.
Participants indicated that the lighter color enhanced product
expectations of a lighter product without compromising on taste or
flavor communication.

Ultra Lights: The participants of all the groups agreed unanimously
that the gold middle band enhanced flavor expectations without
sacrificing the communication of an ultra low tar product.

Eagle:

As previously mentioned, the diving eagle emerged as a favorite of the
groups. The full pack eagle of the "silhouette" design was difficult
to discern and viewed as being too flashy and feminine by both
competitive and franchise male smokers. Similarly, the eagle-box
design in the lower right corner was viewed as being too flashy and
upscale. The current eagle and the flaired eagle were liked, but were
perceived as being the same as other eagles on the market: "Looks
like the Buick eagle." The action and uniqueness of the diving eagle,
however, had strong appeal across all groups.

In terms of placement, the groups split almost evenly between breaking
through the border and right side logo integration placement.

Breaking through the border adds excitement and motion to the eagle
and draws one's eyes into the logo. However, it also breaks up the
tri-band geometry that is WINSTON's heritage. Further, at anything
greater than arm's length the eagle looks like a bow tied around the
package. The eagle integrated into the logo on the right side,
however, adds motion and excitement to the pack and does it without
coupromising on the basic geometry.

Conclusions/Next Steps

Overall, the groups in Tampa were a success. Brand is comforted knowing
we are on the right track to achieving our objective of contemporizing
the WINSTON pack.

Brand has directed KNT Plusmark to make a set of comps that combine the
winning elements from the focus groups, These will be available for
presentation to Management on 5/28, Pending approval of this design, we
will proceed with quantitative testing in June.

M. H.\Heflin
MHH: mls

ec: T. C. Harris
W. F. Bultman
BYRS2aceel-

R, 0. Muncaster

6088 6140S