R, M. Sanders
May 28, 1987
Page 2

e Change is appealing to competitive smokers, but not significantly

so. A packaging change would attract interest from competitive
smokers: "I might buy them to see what they tasted like."
However, WINSTON's heritage of being perceived as an older brand
would not be altered in the short run.

e Franchise and- competitive smokers felt that _a packaging change

would not necessarily signal a product change, Some franchise
participants expressed concerns that WINSTON might change the
product, but said that if they were assured of product consistency,
they would maintain brand loyalty.

e Simplification of the packaging may communicate modernity, but
over-simplification makes it look generic. The comment "that looks
generic’ was repeated several times in reference to some the new
designs. When this was probed, the element that appeared to be
lacking from the current pack was the "fussifiess" of the current
pack. Similarly, "flashy" looking elements, such as overly
stylized eagles, also communicated generic product. The
participants mentioned MAGNA's flashy logo as an example of a
discount brand hiding in expensive packaging. Franchise smokers,
in particular, felt WINSTON did not need that kind of flashiness.
The bottom line on this point is that packaging elements such as
the current logo need to be maintained to continue to communicate a
quality brand.

« The eagle needs to be displayed more prominently. Confirming the

findings of the focus groups in Atlanta in March, most
participants, both franchise and competitive, were unaware of the
eagle on the current pack. These groups confirmed the positive
feelings towards the eagle that were expressed in Atlanta, e.g.
"najestic,"” "traditionally American," "quality," ete. The groups
agreed unanimously that the eagle needs to be a more prominent part
of the design,

Results

The packaging shown achieved the project objective of providing a more
contemporary look for WINSTON, and overall the new designs were
preferred to the current pack. Though no clear "winner" emerged,
certain design elements were preferred over the alternatives and these
are identified below. The design that generated the most favorable
overall impressions was "Diving Eagle." Among female smokers
"silhouette" generated a lot of appeal, but this design was not liked by
male smokers.

Diving Eagle

Both franchise and competitive smokers liked this design the best
albeit by a very small majority. The two features that seemed to
drive this were the logo and the eagle.

2088 6T20S