at

And

“ R, M, Sanders
May 28, 1987
Page 3

e Logo: The logo is the same as current and thus leverages
WINSTON's heritage in a more contemporary setting. The serifs on
the print add the "fussiness" that separate this design from the
more modern, but potentially generic, looking logos.

e Eagle: The diving eagle prominently displayed and integrated
with the logo was preferred across all groups. The activity and
motion implied by this eagle appealed to all groups, especially
males, both franchise and competitive: "That eagle is aggressive
and powerful, He's saying he's number one."

Silhouette

Interestingly, this was the "way out" design selected for stimulation
in the groups. By a slight majority, female smokers, both franchise
and competitive, elected this design as their favorite. The first
runner-up was the diving eagle. Male smokers atmost unanimously made
it their least favorite design. Female smokers, both franchise and
competitive, liked the boldness and flashiness of this design. Males
smokers asserted that it made WINSTON a female brand. The design is
too radical a departure from current WINSTON packaging and should not
be considered further. However, its acceptance by the groups is
indicative of how far a design change could be taken.

 

Specific Elements

Logo: The preferred logo of the groups is the current one. While the
modern typestyles and thicker lettering convey a more contemporary
imagery, they lose the finery and heritage of the current logo. In
logo coloration the groups split fairly even between red and black.
Franchise groups gave a slight edge to the red lettering, while
competitive groups gave the edge to black. This is probably more of a
reflection of what the respective groups are used to (red WINSTON
logo, black Marlboro logo) than true design judgment. The black logo
gives the Full Flavor pack a dramatic look through a sharp contrast;
however, it fails to add anything to the Lights or Ultra Lights
styles. In fact, the black logo on the Lights and Ultra styles gives
them a heaviness that detracts from their lower tar communication.
Based on this consideration, the slight franchise preference for red,
and Brand's desire to keep logo coloration consistent across the
Family, Brand recommends utilizing the red logo across all flavor
groups.

Coloration:

Full Flavor: Both franchise and competitive smokers preferred the
current WINSTON red over the Marlboro red, In the small amounts
that Marlboro red is utilized on their pack (Marlboro is basically a
white pack), it is eye-catching and appealing. However, that same
color spread over two-thirds of the pack makes it look garish.
Further, the deeper reds enhance the "real taste" product
expectations.

 

8088 6Iz05