Jaw banning radio and television’ advertising of

. Snuff and ehewing tabscco, a billion-dollar Indus-
‘ry in the United States. \Winsten SR1tin AC

"The new law, a compromise between the indus-

‘ry and its erilics, alse would force all packages of

“amokeless tobacco te carry rotating warning 1a-

dels, Wendt SnleM SOUANML artis)

Cigarette makers, although hot requited to ro-

“tate warnings until last October, have Lived with

warning labels and ad bans stoce 197h. 9 y

Bat the health issues and marketing curbs that

pot cigarettes in a bind proved to be a windfall for

_ the smokeless industry thrangh the 1870s and early

1960s, Pliched as a healthier, rugged allernative to

“z Imhaling cigarettes, ales of suff and chew soared.

* sThe goverment and health community's benign

“view of souff and chow finally turned belligerent

Isat year. Studies show sharp increase in the

number of teen-agers and children, maitly boys,

‘using smokeless tobacco, and there is growing

“cevidence that sustalned use can cause oral cancer

and gum disease... on od

+k This week, a national panel of healt experts

met at the National Institutes of Health in Bethes-

ds, Ma, to sharpen public Focus on the dungers of
sa? smokeless tabaeca, 5

The panel believes that the publle should be
warned that the use of smokeless tobacco, particu-
larly snuff when started in childhood, ineretises the.
risk of oral cancer,” the panel said in @ report,
released yesterday. es

‘The report noted that scientific studies af
smokeless tobacco and health are inadequate. But,
using available evidence, it eoncluded:

{L Smokeless tobacco is addictive, Regular use
creates nicotine levels in the blood that are about
equal to thase eaused by smoking.

'C Lead present in srookeless tobacco can post
Ticks to fetal develapment in pregnant women.

G Regular use can cause gums to recede in the

‘areas of the mouth where smokeless tobacco
ke . : :
SB use of smokeiess taioes by elder and
ddolescents Is increasing, with wide regional dit
erences, The Southeast is considered a high-risk
region

U The risk of oral eancer is four times higher
among soulf users than nng-users, according fo a
National Cancer Institote study of a group of Nori
Carolina warnen. i"

“The smokeless tobacco industey maintains there
fs no establisied tie belwoen snuif or chewing
tebaveo and eancer.

Bot in light of the mounting evidence, Congress
‘cted on the ise last year. Rep. Henry Waxtuan,
D-Calif, held hearings on the issue last summer.
Waxman's health subcommittee proposed the
package warnings and broadcast ad ban. .--

The smokeless tobzeco Industry hag agreed 10
the warning labels and ad tran Legislation before
Congress. .

‘Warning labels make it harder for individuals to
argue In court that they didn't kaowr the product,
could harm their health

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

 

 

Beanie
tS RE i cocuand tess

EUSGATTLE — A physician wha says

 

* tears HE

the defaced a cigarette billboard be-
feause yhe, wants to; save, lives ‘has
‘ipleaded‘not guilty to a LE of de.

struction of property,

5. “As a physician, T have (> Tespond

agen

 

toa medical emergency, and I felt it
as worth breaking the lave,” Dr, Mi-
‘ehae! Lipproan sald at his city court

arraignment: Thursday, +. dv =
£_Lippman's attorney,Joy Srauek:

 

 

‘sald she would use the legal defense
of “necessity.” Lippman defaced the
~bitboard because he was confronting

More smuggling
of cigarettes *- §

called unlikely

 

 

North Caralina_ officials : say
they don’t expect a now outbreak
of cigarette smuggling, despite ,
federal concerns about increasing
cigarette taxes in other states.

‘The Advisory Commission on

Intergovernmental Retations sai
Jast fnonih in Washington that
“many states have raised cigarette
taxes since 1921, making it maore
enticing for smugglers to bring in
cigarettes from states with lower"
(axes and sell them al a profit,
North Carolina charges a 2-cent
tax on a pack of cigarettes;
compared ivith 24 cents in Michi-
gan und Pennsylvania, State and
ocal taxes add 29 cents to each
pack sold in New Yark Cily. 234
In addition, many states added &
ents to the tax Oct, 1, when they
thought the federal ‘tax would
dechine by that amount in a”
“sunset” provision, said Mike
Dodd, operations officer with the.
federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobae-
¢0 and Firearms in Washingtan,
Congress decided ta extend the
tax until March. m

 

ight now there’s potentlal for,

a very dynamic undercover e¢on-
omy in efgarettes because the
federal government has not yet
stabilized its tax on cigarettes,"

he
; flux.

id. "The whole thing is in
“The News and Observer

  

State officials say - elgarette
smuggling may rise as: per-pack
taxes go up. clscwhere, but they
say it won't be anything like the
“buttlegging” heyday of the past

decade,

Rrrleah nic

“They're saying there's a poten-

tal for it,
potential,

and certainly there Ls a
said Gary Griffith;

 

 

supervisor ‘of special. operations
far the State Bureau of Invesliga-
tion, “But 2s far 2s a return to the’
early 19703, T don't think we'll’

ever see a returns thal.” °~

  

ctor. Defaces Cigarette Ad

a crime that’ ls much more serious
ban the crime with which he's been
charged, Ms. Smurker said. [-1?9 26
‘Last month, Lippman, $5, sprayed
the words “of cancer" after the bil-
board message reading, “Camel, «
sa whole new world.” He was
caught by police. winstinaelea, arc,
Appreirial hearing date was set for
Feb. 26. Lippman could face a fine of,
wp to 98,000 and a year in jail":
‘Lippman, a family physiclan in Se
atte, is a member of a group called
Washington DOC, or Doetors Ought ta
Care, which opposes smoking. =»:

 

 

 

Common goal shared

th its coverage of the efforts to reform
the tobaeco program, The News and
‘Observer has unfortunately taken the
position that there can be little if any
common ground between the producers
of tobacco and the manufacturers of
tobacco products. taletgh, WL.

As a tobacco farmer, I find this
attitude very upsetting. I your Jan, 5
editorial, you wrote that “if the fegisia-
tion is enacted, cigarette manufacturers
‘will gain a role in setting future levels of
allowable tobacco production” and
treated this development as if it were 2
calamity for farmers. 1-14-86

In fact, this strikes me ag one of the
‘best things about the bill — it will tink the
manufacturers’ needs and the growers!
production in a manner that should
Prevent further surpluses. To guard
against misuse by any of the parties
Involved, the bitl provides that the U.S.
secretury of agriculture may inerease ot
decrease the ‘quota indicated by the
Brojections if he thinks an adjustment is
needed. The Mrs and Observer

I don't claim that tobacco growers do
not have basieally oppasing intcrests
from the manufacturers; they want the
price low, we want it high. But in the
predicament alt of us are currently in,
‘ve all have a common interest in selling
the surplus tobacco now in storage and
seeing that another surplus does. not
build up. ‘The N&O docs us all aa
injustice by claiming that we cannot
share in this eammon goal.

JOLIN VOLLMER
‘Tobacco farmer