Weekly Highlights - Process Technology & Development
Page 3

On-Line Data Monitoring & Display System For Protos

Significant progress is being made in the data monitor-
ing and display system for the Protos 8000 complex. The
objective is to provide color graphic displays of mois-
ture, size, dilution and weight which will help the
operator make machine adjustments to keep product quali-
ty up to specifications. Interfaces between sensors and
computer are now being established. Hauni system sig-
nals are compatible with these interfaces, and elec-
tronic improvements are being made as appropriate. An
I.D.T. color monitor system is being specified which
will provide capability to display data in charts,
graphs, tables, etc. The first system will be demon-_.
strated in the R&D Pilot Plant by end second quarter. A
long term objective is to close the loop to provide on-
line control of the maker.

VI. SPECIAL PROGRAMS/PROJECTS ©

Drying Study

Severe drying of cut filler had been found to reduce its
equilibration moisture level. CAMEL 70 when dried to 4%
moisture reequilibrated to 11.4% moisture while the same
blend when dried to 2% moisture reequilibrated to 10.8%
moisture at 76F, 60% RH. After reordering, the severely
dried product also has a reduced portion of tightly
bound water as measured by NMR and appears to have a
high moisture loss rate. ‘ ,

Discrimination panel evaluation of severely dried CAMEL
70, reequilibrated to 10.8%, a reduced moisture product
at the same moisture and a control product at 11.5%
moisture revealed no significant differences.

Based on this and previous panel evaluations, it is con-
cluded that drying produces no direct change in smoking
properties when products are evaluated at comparable
moistures.

All attempts to optimize cut filler drying on the basis
of direct sensory impact have been discontinued. Future
arying tests will focus on property changes which may
have an indirect effect on smoking performance such as
filling capacity, moisture retention and uniformity.

 

LIL6 77S0S