KOOL Spanish language 30-shect was the only Spanish language
advertising for any product chserved in the Phoenix market. Not
one single piece of Spanish languag Wvertising was observed in-

store for any product, Louserved very liltle use of Spanish language
during transactions in-store.

 

 

" VICEROY Rich Lights had strong display (temporary) presence in
Hispanic cutlets but most displeys showed very litilg movement and
store managers reported stow to no movement on the brand. The
same commenis were made about KSL. KSL performance impraved
on the perimeter of the Hispanic enclaves where stores often had a
lack clientele, .

 

 

In-store cigerette advertising was minimal. PM and RIR advertised
their frll-taste non-menthol brands, Marlboro and Winston, with
some permanent signage (metal signs and lighted signs), Maribore
was most dominant oowever, Menthoi brands were simply not
advertised,

  
 

 

Vield trips should be made to other Spanish markets (e.g, Miami}
by KOOL Brand Group personnel to evaluate differences /similarities
between markets and between populations (i,e. Mexican vs, Cuban).

 

 

* Local KOOL Spanish language advertising, et least in Phoents, should
be limited to in-store where the audionce can be more precisely
targeted, KOOL Spanish 30-sheet is located in ihe heert of the
Phoenix Hispanic community bet it is placed on “through streets”
which carry more White traffic than Hispanic, Intuitively, I belleve
serious consideration should he given te dropping all KOOT. Spanish
language 30-sheet nationally and restricting Spanish copy to Spanish
magazines, six-sheet in same areas, and in-store advertising.

   

More KOOL presence can be established at point-of-sale with both
temporary and permanent advertising. While KOOL is a significant
brand in the Hispanic submarket, it does not have nearly as mach

business to defend or gain in Fhoenix as it dogs inthe Black submarket. The
investment in these Spanish FOS items, particularly permanert

pieces, should reflect this business reality.

   

On-pack consumer items can be effectively utilized in many small

Spanish retail outlets. KSL beach/summer items, Kmited e on lighters,
Quicksilver pens, and, most importantly, KOOL parent items should @
be made availiable for Spanish outiets in limited quantities. Specific x

 

directions for use of these items should be provided by the Brand *
Greup though we realize that the ultimate utilization wiil be at the a
discretion of lccal field sales personnel. a

x