The coat proteins of intra-Golgi cisternae vesicles have been
isolated and one component, 6-COP, is homologous to the
100-116 kD family of proteins that are the major components
of the HAl and HA2 adaptors (20). There is thus a family
of adaptor-like molecules used in both clathrin- and non-
clathrin-coated vesicles. It is not known if the 8-COP pro-
tein recognizes sorting signals or is just involved in forming
vesicles. A 108 kD protein has been found in transcytotic ves-
sels and may also be a member of this family (30, 60). Per-
haps TGN-derived vesicles going to the basolateral and/or
apical surfaces have their own adaptor-like molecule(s).
These adaptors may recognize the signals for basolateral
(and apical?) sorting. The known Golgi-associated adaptors
(HA-I/AP-1 and 8-COP) are rapidly dissociated from the
membrane by brefeldin A (20) (F. Brodsky, personal com-
munication), In MDCK cells brefeldin A blocks transport to
the apical surface from both the TGN and the basolateral sur-
face, suggesting that adaptors are involved in these processes
(30, 41).

Permeabilized cells and cell-free systems have been used
to reconstitute budding of vesicles from the TGN (54, 64),
and budding of transcytotic vesicle from early endosomes
(M. Bomsel and K. Mostov, unpublished results). Delivery
to the apical surface has been reconstituted in cells perme-
abilized with streptolysin-O (23). This approach should allow
biochemical dissection of the steps involved in sorting and
transport. A complementary approach is to isolate transport
vesicles, either by fractionation of whole cells (60) or after
production in a reconstituted system, and analyze their com-
position, HA-containing apical vesicles and VSVG contain-
ing basolateral vesicles produced from permeabilized MDCK
cells have distinct but overlapping compositions (64).

Several studies have shown that microtubules play a role
in transporting both TGN-derived and transcytotic vesicles
to the apical, but not the basolateral surface (4). Disruption
of microtubules by nocodazole or colchicine reduces the
rate of apical delivery, but has less effect on the ultimate ex-
tent of apical delivery. In epithelial cells microtubules are
largely arrayed with their plus ends near the basolateral sur-
face and their minus ends near the apical surface. A minus
end-directed motor is probably involved although this has
not been demonstrated.

As MDCK cells acquire polarity after switching from low
Ca to normal Ca media, basolateral markers are sent from
the TGN to both surfaces (D. Wollner and J. Nelson, per-
sonal communication). One interpretation is that the ma-
chinery to form basolateral vesicles in the TGN develops
slowly after polarity is induced. Another possibility is in-
stead that the correctly polarized acceptor or docking sites
develop only slowly on the basolateral plasma membrane
(52). As they become polarized, MDCK cells gradually
acquire a submembranous cytoskeleton containing fodrin
linked to the basolateral membrane. Perhaps this must be
fully assernbled in order for TGN-derived vesicles meant for
the basolateral surface to be correctly targeted. Indeed, one
can further speculate that in a non-polarized cell (e.g.,
fibroblast) the TGN segregates potentially apical and baso-
lateral proteins into separate vesicles, but because the plasma
membrane is not divided into appropriate domains both
classes of vesicles simply fuse with the undifferentiated sur-
face. In such cells early endosomes might also segregate
potentially transcytosed proteins (c.g., plgR) from recycling

Mostav et al. Plasma Membrane Protein Sorting in Epithelial Cells

ones (e.g., TER) but then both vesicle populations fuse with
the surface.

Small GTP-binding proteins of the ras superfamily control
a wide variety of membrane transport steps. In mammalian
cells there are a large number of ras related proteins known
as rab proteins that are each localized to a specific membrane
compartment (22). This has led to the suggestion that rab
proteins identify individual compartments and insure that
vesicular traffic is properly directed from one compartment
to the next. It is therefore surprising that no epithelial-
specific rab proteins have so far been reported (15) despite
an extensive search. The absence of such proteins would be
consistent with the notion that the TGN in non-polarized
cells segregates apical and basolateral proteins. Further-
more, we have recently found the segregation of the plgR
into transcytotic vesicles is apparently mediated by the het-
erotrimeric G, protein (M. Bomsel and K. Mostov, unpub-
lished), Although we originally expected that this process
would use an epithelial-specific GTP-binding protein, this
may not be the case.

Other Cell Types

In neurons the axon may correspond to the apical surface,
while the cell body and dendrites correspond to the baso-
lateral surface (18). The apical proteins, HA, and GPI-
anchored Thy-1, are found only in axons, while the baso-
lateral VSVG is found only in the cell body and dendrites.
This raises the exciting possibility that the principles in-
volved in epithelial polarity may be used in a wide variety
of other ceil types.

The highly polarized budding yeast S. cerevisiae offers the
best opportunity to analyze polarity genetically (19). During
budding all traffic to the surface is directed to the bud. In
response to mating pheromones they produce an elongate
projection. Choosing a bud site and directing membrane
traffic into the bud requires a number of genes, including
GTPases and a GDP-GTP exchange protein. Combining
results and insights from yeast and mammalian systems has
been an extremely powerful approach in analyzing mem-
brane traffic and other aspects of cell biology. We hope to
use this strategy to achieve a deeper understanding of cell
polarity.

We are indebted to M. Kerschen and J. Gilbert for manuscript preparation.
We thank past and present members of this laboratory for discussions, B.
Gumbiner, K. Simons, and F. Brodsky for comments on the manuscript,
and H. Geuze, E. Rodriguez-Boulan, I. Geffen, M. Spiess, D. Wollner,
J. Nelson, K. von Figura, and C. Peters for communicating unpublished
results,

Our work was supported by grants from National Institutes of Health,
a Searle Scholarship, and a Cancer Research Institute Investigator Award
to K, Mostov, G. Apadaca was supported by a fellowship from the Cancer
Research Institute. B. Aroeti was supported by a fellowship from the Hu-
man Frontiers of Science Program Organization. C. Okamoto was sup-
ported by a National Institutes of Health training grant and by a fellowship
from the Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer Research Fund.

Received for publication 4 October 1991 and in revised farm 5 November
1991.

References

}. Alberts, 8., D. Bray, J. Lewis, M. Raff, K. Roberts, and J. Watson, 1989.
Molecular Biology of the Cell. Garland Publishing Inc., New York.
824 pp.

38