How can we reconcile these observations? One possibility
is that the Tyr internalization signal is closely related struc-
turally to one type of basolateral sorting signal. These might
both involve 8 turns and some § turns might be able to serve
both functions. An exposed turn is a suitable structure for
recognition by other molecules. However, not all Tyr inter-
nalization signals function as basolateral sorting signals, be-
cause the mutant plgR with a deletion of its 17-mer residue
basolateral targeting signal is apically targeted und has a
functional Tyr internalization signal (12). Conversely, some
basolateral targeting signals (TTR, LDLR, plgR) are not en-
docytotic signals. Given the wide range of sequences that
work as internalization sequences, it is not surprising that
some sequences form turns that serve only as one signal or
the other or both. TfR and LDLR might have redundant
basolateral sorting signals, one identical to the endocytotic
signal and the other acting as a backup. Finally, in cases
where the two types of signals appear to be identical
(LGP120, NGFR, HA), we may have simply not yet found
mutations that separate the two functions. For example, sev-
eral mutations (including Tyr to Ala) in lysosomal acid phos-
phatase eliminated both endocytosis and basolateral target-
ing. However, a recently made Tyr to Phe mutation blocked
endocytosis but not basolateral sorting (C. Peters and K. von
Figura, personal communication).

The numerous examples of the involvement of the cyto-
plasmic domain in basolateral sorting are most simply cx-
plained by a model in which this step is signal mediated.
However, one could imagine that all these proteins have
cryptic apical signals and that the cytoplasmic domain (or a
protein that binds to it) acts by preventing entry into apical
vesicles. Proteins would then enter the supposed default
pathway to the basolateral surface. It has been suggested (28)
that this mechanism might particularly occur in the plgR,
which is specialized for transcytosis and is targeted first to
the basolateral and then to the apical surface. However, the
ability of the pIgR to appear sequentially on both surfaces
of the cell is not unusual. In fact, many of the proteins con-
sidered above as basolateral are in some circumstances
found at the apical surface or are transcytosed. The FcR II
transcytoses IgG from apical to basolateral in MDCK cells
and possibly in placenta (29, 59). The LGP120 can undergo
basolateral to apical transcytosis in MDCK cells (28). The
LDLR is found on the apical surface of kidney tubules in
transgenic mice (47) and may be on the apical surface of
MDCK cells (35). The TfR is on both surfaces of the
placental-derived BeWo cell line (14), Both the M6PR (a rap-
idly endocytosed basolateral protein in MDCK cells (49)) as
well as a 100-kD lysosomal membrane protein are on the ap-
ical surface of osteoclasts (2). Whatever mechanism is
responsible for basolateral sorting must be flexible enough
to direct these proteins to the apical surface when appro-
priate.

The glycolipid clustering mechanism mentioned above
may also play a role in sorting lipids, GPI-anchored proteins,
and perhaps other proteins (such as the detergent-insoluble
HA) to the apical surface (57). Perhaps all of the apical
forms of the proteins listed in Table I cluster with glycolipids
and the normal function of their cytoplasmic domains is to
prevent this. We have so far not observed any detergent in-
solubility of the apically targeted mutant pIgR’s. It would be

The Journal of Cell Biology. Volume (16. 1992

worthwhile to check this for other apical mutants. The
glycolipid clustering model probably cannot account for all
apical sorting, as in several cell lines some GPI-anchored
proteins are basolateral (37) (C. Zurzolo, L. Nitsch, E.
Rodriguez-Boulan, and M. Lisanti. 1990. J. Cell Biol. 111:
327). We think it more likely that as a minimum, cells have
both a basolateral sorting mechanism and a glycolipid mech-
anism for apical sorting.

Only one signal has been identified for transcytosis. Phos-
phorylation of a particular Ser in the cytoplasmic domain of
the pIgR signals transcytosis (13). Replacement of the Ser
with a non-phosphorylatable Ala prevents transcytosis,
while mutation to an Asp (whose negative charge mimics
phosphate) stimulates transcytosis. The negative charge does
not simply inactivate the basolateral sorting signal, as the
Asp mutant is basolaterally sorted before transcytosis (12).
The effects of the charge on transcytosis are also seen if the
Ala and Asp-containing mutant cytoplasmic domains are
fused with a heterologous protein. This suggests that this sig-
nal for transcytosis acts in the cytoplasmic domain, and not
via an effect on the extracellular domain (G. Apodaca and
K. Mostav, unpublished data).

The connection between endocytotic and basolateral sort-
ing signals has led to the suggestion that proteins travel from
the TGN first to endosomes and from there to the basolateral
surface (27, 28). Brefeldin A causes the TGN and early endo-
somes to fuse into a tubular network in several cell types (36,
68), although this has not been shown in MDCK cells (30).
This result suggests that normally there is a significant con-
nection between the TGN and endosomes. One indirect argu-
ment against this model is that the Asp-mutant plgR (and
other efficiently transcytosed proteins) would traverse the
same endosomal compartment first on the way to the
basolateral surface, and again on the way to the apical sur-
face. As this mutant is not phosphorylated, the endosome
would not have an obvious way to efficiently sort the appar-
ently identical molecules to two different destinations.

Sorting Machinery

There is little data on the cellular proteins that recognize
sorting signals and direct proteins to the correct surface, al-
though understanding this machinery is probably the best
way to settle the argument about default pathways. The possi-
ble relationship of endocytotic and basolateral sorting sig-
nals suggests a possible involvement of clathrin and the adap-
tor family of proteins (28). In plasma membrane coated pits
the Tyr internalization signals in receptors are believed to in-
teract with the HA-2/AP-2 adaptor complex (48). Clathrin-
coated regions of the TGN contain only the HA-I/AP-1 adap-
tor, which does not bind to the Tyr internalization signal on
endocytosed receptors. TGN clathrin-coated vesicles func-
tion in delivery of proteins to lysosomes and formation of
regulated secretory granules (31, 48). The basolaterally
sorted VSVG is not seen in clathrin coated regions of the
TGN (24). Also the ASGPR (a basolateral protein in MDCK
cells) (65) is excluded from HAI/AP-I-coated regions of the
TGN in HepG2 cells (H. Geuze, personal communication).
These observations make it unlikely that clathrin in the TGN
is involved in basolateral sorting.

Many transport steps use non-clathrin-coated vesicles.

580