Mini-Review

Plasma Membrane Protein Sorting in Polarized Epithelial Cells

Keith Mostov, Gerard Apodaca, Benjamin Aroeti, and Curtis Okamoto
Departments of Anatomy, and Biochemistry and Biophysics, and Cardiovascular Research Institute, Box 0452, University of

California, San Francisco, California 94143-0452

function of most eukaryotic cells. A basic aspect of this
polarity is that the cell’s plasma membrane is divided
into discrete domains. Examples include the membranes of
axons and dendrites in neurons, the growing bud and mating
projection in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and lamel-
lipodia in fibroblasts. However, the best-studied type of
polarity is found in epithelia, which is the most common type
of tissue in animals (52, 56). In simple epithelia the cells
form a monolayer where one surface of the cell—the
apical —faces the outside world or a topologically equivalent
space, such as the lumen of the intestines. This is separated
by tight junctions from the basolateral surface, which con-
tacts adjacent cells and the underlying connective tissue.
Apical and basolateral surfaces have very different protein
and lipid compositions (4, 10, 57). For example, the
basolateral surface contains receptors for adhering to other
cells and the basement membrane, and for uptake of
nutrients from the circulation. The apical surface contains
transporters for exchanging small molecules with the outside
world. As epithelial cells divide and differentiate they must
send proteins to the correct surface to establish their polarity
(25). Moreover, in a differentiated epithelial cell, polarity is
maintained despite an enormous flux of membrane compo-
nents traveling to and from each surface.

S PATIAL asymmetry is fundamental to the structure and

Pathways to the Cell Surface

As shown in Fig. 1, epithelial cells use two pathways to send
proteins to the correct surface. Newly made proteins can
travel directly from the trans-Golgi network (TGN)' to ei-
ther the apical or basolateral surface. Alternatively, proteins
can use an indirect pathway traveling first from the TGN to
the basolateral surface, followed by endocytosis and trans-
cytosis to the apical surface (46, 55). The former pathway
was discovered in MDCK cells which form a well-polarized
monolayer when cultured on a permeable support. In pio-
neering work, Rodrigucz-Boulan and Sabatini (53) showed
that influenza virus buds solely from the apical surface,

 

|. Abbreviations used in this paper. APN, aminopeptidase N; ASGPR,
asialoglycaprotein receptor; DPP-IV, dipeptidy! peptidase 1V; FCR I, im-
munoglobulin Fe receptor H; GPI, glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol; HA, in-
fluenza virus hemagglutinin: LDLR. low density lipapratein receptor; LGP
120, lysosomal membrane glycoprotein 120; M6PR, mannose-6-phosphate
receptor; NGFR, nerve growth factor receptor, plgR, polymeric immuno-
globulin receptor, TAR, transferrin receptor, VGN, trans-Golgi network:
VSVG, vesicular stomatitis virus G protcin.

© The Rockefeller University Press, 0021-9525/92/02/577/7 $2.00
The Journal of Ceil Biology, Yalume 116, Number 3, February 1992 577-383

whereas vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) buds from the
basolateral surface (53). Viral envelope proteins, hemagglu-
tinin (HA) of influenza and G protein of VSV (VSVG), travel
through the secretory pathway together to the trans-Golgi
network (TGN). Here they are packaged into separate vesi-
cles that carry these proteins to the apical and basolateral
surfaces, respectively (24, 51). Newly made endogenous
MDCK proteins are also delivered directly from the TGN to
their final destination (33). Hepatocytes, in contrast, lack
a pathway from the TGN to the apical (canalicular) surface
and rely entirely on the indirect, transcytotic route (3}. The
enterocyte-like CaCo-2 cell line uses a mixture of the direct
and transcytotic strategies (32, 42). For several apical pro-
teins a fraction is delivered directly from the TGN to the api-
cal surface, while the balance follows the transcytotic route.
MDCK cells can also use the transcytotic route, as was
shown for the polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (pIgR)
transfected into these cells (45), as well as for endogenous
proteins (5).

Both the cell type and the protein influence the route taken
to the apical surface. For example, dipeptidyl peptidase IV
(DPP-IV) and aminopeptidase N (APN) use the transcytotic
route in liver and both routes in CaCo2 cells. When trans-
fected into MDCK cells, they mainly use the direct route
from the TGN to the apical surface (39, 66). However, about
20% of both travel to the MDCK basolateral surface. In the
case of APN, this was judged to be a non-transcytosing pool,
although transcytosis was evaluated indirectly (66). If true,
this would imply that in MDCK cells, basolateral APN is un-
able to be transcytosed and that transcytosis depends on the
cell type. In contrast, we found that the 20% of DPP-IV
reaching the basolateral surface is then transcytosed (11).
The fraction of DPP-IV going to the basolateral surface
varies with the cell type, but it is transeytosed efficiently in
all cells (40). In contrast the pIgR exclusively uses the trans-
cytotic route regardless of the cell type.

Whereas the TGN to apical pathway is present only in cer-
tain cells, transcytosis is found in all epithelial cells exam-
ined. The importance of transcytotic sorting is emphasized
by the fact that while roughly 5% of the cell surface is newly
made per hour, the equivalent of about 50% of the cell sur-
face is endocytosed per hour (63). Most endocytosed pro-
teins simply recycle, but without exquisite selectivity for en-
try into the transcytotic pathway, the two surfaces of the cell
would be rapidly scrambled.

The amount of a protein at a surface depends on the rates
of delivery and removal due to endocytosis and/or degrada-

577