Apical

direct
apical

transcytosis

 

 

TGN Endosome
direct endocytosis recycling
basolateral A \

Basolateral

Figure 1. Pathways of protein traffic in polarized epithelial cetls. For
details see text. Only selected pathways are shown.

tion. Proteins can be selectively retained at one surface by
interaction with other proteins, such as the cytoskeleton, ex-
tracellular matrix, or adhesion proteins on adjacent cells.
For example, in MDCK cells the Na-K ATPase is delivered
to both surfaces. The basolateral molecules form a long-
lived complex with the submembranous cytoskeleton,
whereas the apical ones are rapidly removed (26). Selective
retention adds another level of regulation of the polarized
distribution of membrane components.

Sorting Information: The Default Pathway

What information is needed to direct molecules to the proper
location? Some molecules may not have any sorting informa-
tion, but travel instead by a default pathway. Soluble secre-
tory proteins that lack any sorting information are believed
to simply follow the movement of fluid through the entire
secretory pathway to the surface of non-polarized cells (67).
To be a marker for the default pathway, a molecule must have
no interaction with the sorting machinery or other molecule
that is being sorted. Even so, such a marker can be excluded
from vesicles by a tight packing of other proteins, such as
apparently occurs in dense core secretory vesicles (9).

Finding a default pathway marker for membrane compo-
nents is difficult. Molecules in a bilayer are effectively at a
much higher concentration than those in solution, so the
effects of weak interactions and excluded volume can be
much greater. For example, in MDCK cells the outer leaflet
of the apical surface is comprised mainly of glycosphin-
golipids, which are hydrogen bonded to each other and ap-
parently exclude glycerol-based phospholipids (63). While
water may be the ideal marker for the fluid-phase default
pathway, it is unclear what the marker for the membrane de-
fault pathway should be. In the absence of such a marker,
less-direct arguments have been made as to whether traffic
of proteins to either epithelial surface occurs by default. Un-
til recently the most widely accepted model was that baso-
lateral sorting is by default (57). The principal reasons ad-
vanced were: (@) Hepatocytes lack a direct apical pathway;
(b) “housekeeping” proteins found on the surface of non-
epithelial cells (e.g., transferrin receptor in fibroblasts) are
on the basolateral surface of epithelial cells; and (c) the api-
cal surface is a differentiated domain or organelle specialized
for interacting with the outside world.

The Journal of Cell Biology, Volume 116, 1992

However, evolutionary and developmental considerations
suggest that the basolateral surface is in some ways the more
specialized domain and it is plausible that apical sorting is
by default. In a single-cell organism the entire plasma mem-
brane interacts with the outside world and is in that sense api-
cal. Multicellular animals develop from a single-cell “organ-
ism”, the fertilized egg. When a fertilized Xenopus egg
divides into two cells it forms de novo a basolateral surface,
sealed by tight junctions (21, 50). (In mammalian embryos,
which develop in a protected environment, epithelialization
takes place later at the compaction stage.) An essential fea-
ture of the evolution of multicellular animals is not an exter-
nal surface, but rather an internal, i.e., basolateral surface
that interacts with the underlying connective tissue. From
this perspective, the apical surface would seem to be the
more primitive domain, rather than a specialization. The no-
tion that epithelia develop from primitive cells which lack
the apparently specialized apical surface has resulted from
studies of events such as induction of kidney tubules from
loose mesenchyme (52). In fact, the more common develop-
mental process is the conversion of epithelia into other tissue
types, such as the induction of mesoderm and of neural tissue
(1). This may involve the loss or modification of the apical
surface, e.g., into axons in neurons.

One experimental model for epithelial development is to
culture MDCK cells in low calcium medium where the cells
lack intracellular contact and are poorly polarized. When
normal levels of calcium are added one can monitor the de-
velopment of polarity (52). Apical proteins are correctly de-
livered to the apical surface very early after adding calcium.
In contrast, the basolateral markers are delivered to both
surfaces, although the apically missorted molecules are short-
lived (67a). One interpretation of these results is that the ma-
chinery for TGN to apical sorting is present even in non-
polarized cells, whereas the machinery for basolateral sort-
ing only develops when polarity is induced. Although these
arguments support the hypothesis that apical sorting might
be by default, the issue is clearly not settled.

Sorting Signals

Traffic to one or possibly both surfaces of the epithelial celi
requires information. In several other sorting processes this
information resides in a sorting signal, i.c., a structural fea-
ture of the protein undergoing sorting (6). Sorting signals
can act positively to direct a protein to a pathway, or nega-
tively by retaining a protein in a compartment or preventing
entry into a vesicle. Direct demonstration of a sorting se-
quence requires both inactivation by mutation, as well as
transferring the signal to a heterologous protein and showing
that the construct is predictably sorted to a new location.

The first signal for polarized sorting to be rigorously es-
tablished was the glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) an-
chor which anchors the carboxy terminus of certain proteins
to the outer leaflet of the lipid bilayer. GPI-anchored proteins
are found exclusively on the apical surface of a variety of epi-
thelial cells (37). Replacing the transmembrane peptide an-
chor ofa normally basolateral protein with a GPI anchor will
redirect the protein to the apical surface (8, 38). This clearly
shows that the GPI anchor is an apical sorting signal, al-
though it does not rule out the possibility that apical targeting
of proteins with transmembrane peptide anchors is by de-
fault.

378