The observations that both GPI-anchored proteins and
glycosphingolipids are apically disposed has suggested a
mechanism for apical sorting (38, 57). Hydrogen bonding
may cause these molecules to cluster together in microdo-
mains in the TGN, which resemble the apical surface. Some
apical proteins (e.g., HA) become resistant to solubilization
by non-ionic detergents shortly before reaching the apical
surface, perhaps due to interaction of their membrane-
spanning segments with clustered glycosphingolipids (58).
This model postulates that unknown proteins interact with
these clusters and sort them into vesicles leading to the api-
cal surface.

The search for peptide-sorting signals and for basolateral-
sorting signals has until recently been frustrating. The basic
strategies have been to mutate or delete various portions of
molecules, especially cytoplasmic domains, and to construct
chimeric molecules. Much of the earlier work gave confus-
ing and even directly contradictory results (10). There are
several likely explanations for these problems. Almost all
earlier studies used viral spike glycoproteins. Their oligo-
meric structure is necessary for proper transport and easily
disrupted by mutations. Many studies did not directly exar-
ine the polarity of delivery from the TGN to the surface but
only steady state distribution, which is complicated by insta-
bility, endocytosis, and transcytosis. Distribution was often
assessed by fluorescence microscopy and seldom quanti-
tated. Finally, the cells expressing the construct may not
have been fully polarized. This may have especially been
true in transient expression systems where either only a
small fraction of cells express a transfected gene or cells lose
polarity due to a viral expression vector, We have also fre-
quently found stable, clonal MDCK cell lines that are poorly
polarized. In our hands, polarized apical delivery of the en-
dogenous gp80 is the most reliable indicator that the cells are
well polarized (62).

The first studies to use a cellular, rather than viral, protein
and to overcome these problems used the plgR. Normally
this protein travels first to the basolateral surface and then
is transcytosed to the apical surface (45), Deletion of either
the cytoplasmic domain or this domain and the membrane
anchor produces a molecule that travels directly from the
TGN to the apical surface (43, 44). This suggests that the cy-
toplasmic domain is needed for basolateral sorting. If just
the membrane-proximal 17 residues of the 103 amino acid
carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic domain are present, the pIgR
is sorted to the basolateral surface (12). In contrast, a dele-
tion of this 17-mer that leaves the remainder of the cytoplas-
mic domain fused in frame is sorted apically. Most impor-
tantly, this 17-mer can be transplanted to a normally apical
protein and redirect it to the basolateral surface.

In recent months quite a few examples of cellular proteins
have been found that are normally basolateral, but can be
converted to apical proteins by mutating or deleting their cy-
toplasmic domain (Table I) (27). The simplest interpretation
is that these domains contain basolateral sorting signals.
However, only in the case of the pIgR has it been demon-
strated that the signal can function when transferred to a het-
erologous protein. The cytoplasmic domains of these pro-
teins have no obvious homology or structural feature in
common, $0 it is difficult to discern what the basolateral sig-
nals are. A tantalizing hint is that in several cases there is
a correlation (first noted for HA; 7) between rapid endocyto-

Mostov et al. Plasma Membrane Protein Sorting in Epithelial Cells

Table I, Cellular Plasma Membrane Proteins in Which
Mutation of Their Cytoplasmic Domain Affects Polarity

 

 

Protein Reference
plgR 44,12
HAt 7
LDLR 28

TR 28

LGP 120 28

FeR II 28
NGFR 34

lysosomal acid phosphatase C. Peters and K. von Figura
(personal communication)
I. Geffen and M. Spiess

(personal communication)

ASGPR

* The influenza virus coat protein, HA, is not a cellular protein, but is in-
cluded here as it serves to illustrate principles discussed in the text.

sis via clathrin-coated pits and basolateral targeting. In most
endocytosed receptors, the signal for clustering in coated
pits involves a Tyr residue, although in some cases (but not
all) an aromatic Phe or Trp can substitute for the Tyr (48).
Mutagencsis studies have shown that residues near the Tyr
are important and have led to the proposal of several differ-
ent, but related consensus sequences of four to six residues
including the Tyr (61). The internalization signals from the
LDLR, M6PR, and plgR can substitute for the signal in the
TER (16). Computer modeling and biophysical studies have
indicated that the signal consists of a particular type of re-
verse 6 turn and that several side chains, including the Tyr,
are exposed on one side of the turn and presumably interact
with some other molecule (17) (C. Peters and K. von Figura,
personal communication).

In at least five cases there is a correlation between endocy-
tosis and basolateral sorting. Particularly revealing is the
HA, which is normally apical and not endocytosed. Replac-
ing a particular residue in its 10 amino acid cytoplasmic do-
main with a Tyr yields a molecule that is oligomerized, rap-
idly endocytosed and basolaterally sorted (7). In LGP120
(28) and ASGPR (I. Geffen and M. Spiess, personal commu-
nication) mutation of a cytoplasmic Tyr reduces endocytosis
and produces an apical, rather than basolateral molecule.
The IgG FRI lacks a Tyr internalization signal. Neverthe-
less, a deletion in its cytoplasmic domain blocks endocytosis
and redirects the molecule from the basolateral to the apical
surface (28). The NGFR is normally apical and not endo-
cytosed. An in-frame deletion of part of the cytoplasmic
domain creates a basolateral, rapidly endocytosed mole-
cule (34).

On the other hand, there are clear examples where endocy-
tosis and basolateral sorting are not correlated. In both the
LDLR and TfR mutation of the cytoplasmic Tyr blocks en-
docytosis but not basolateral sorting (28). Other mutations
in their cytoplasmic domains redirect the proteins from the
basolateral to the apical surface. In the pIgR, the mutant
with only the 17-mer basolateral sorting sequence is baso-
lateral and not detectably endocytosed, while the mutant
with an in-frame deletion of this signal is apical and endocy-
tosed at a near wild-type rate (12). Moreover, mutation of
both Tyr residues virtually eliminates endocytosis, but does
not alter basolateral sorting (C. Okamoto and K. Mostov,
unpublished data).

579