qike

c nfo? 4$
«My ger
MEMORANDUM TO JIM JOHNST!

ON
B. OGLESBYe~

ROGER MOZINGO
TIM HYDE

From: Tom Griscom 4%
Subject: Tobacco Institute Management Committee —
Date: April 19, 1995

<a
This is a.review of actions taken at the April management committee meeting.
1) Approval was given to additional submissions to. OSHA as part of the post+
review process. There will be additional discussions with Mary Ward to 7
coordinate all submissions and to take into account work being done by the

individual companies. This will require an assessment to each member company
and RJR share should be approximately $150,000."

2) An update’ was provided’ on key state actions, There was discussion’ on the "—

status of Florida legislation and Roger Mozingo will’provide a separate piece —

to you on this item. In addition, there was a review’ of presemption actions
in New York and Ohio. No additional action required at this time in either
state.

3) On the Youth AccesS proposal with: retailers, it was. agreed that a plan
should be put in place with the retail commmity-which would incorporate —
voluntary measures. The tentative time frame for roll-out of such a program
would be either 4th quarter 1995 or first quarter 1996, This decision will
keep the retailers focused on the program and provide a more definite time —
for completion of the volimtary parts of'a Youth Access initiative, Nothing
will go forward or be announced pending other legislative opportunities.

4) A decision was made to implement a California public relations effort under
the direction of Brennan Dawson, This will begin with focus groups in
California to identify messages and extend to having an identified person

in California to.provide quick media reaction’ and response.‘ No additional
funds required for this activity.

5) It was recommended that the scientific work which has been’ done on’ fire -
safe cigarettes should continue; that while there may not be an active
legiSlative proposal at this time, the task force work. should proceed,

 

66LT T@cCTsS