Acute Intermittent Porphyria: Characterization of a Novel Mutation
in the Structural Gene for Porphobilinogen Deaminase
Demonstration of Noncatalytic Enzyme Intermediates Stabilized by Bound Substrate

Robert J. Desnick, Ludmila T. Ostasiewicz, Peter A. Tishler, and Pertti Mustajoki
Division of Medical Genetics, Mount Sinat School of Medicine, New York 10024: Veterans Admunstration Medical Center, Brockion-
West Roxbury, Massachusers 02402 and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02143; and Third Depariment of Medicine.

Cnwwersity of Heisink!, 00290 Hetsuiki, Finland

Abstract

To investigate the molecular pathology in acute intermittent
porphyria (AIP), the nature of the defective porphobilinogen
(PBG)-deaminase was determined in erythrocyte iysates from
165 AIP heterozygotes from 92 unrelated families representing
20 different ethnic or demographic groups. Immunologic and
physicokinetic studies revealed the occurrence of four classes
uf PBG-deaminase mutations. In the majority of families
studied, the amount of immunoreactive enzyme protein curre-
sponded to the amount of enzymatic activity, indicating the
absence of cross-reacting immunologic material (CRIM) pro-
duced by the mutant allele, In 78 of these CRIM-negative
families (designated type 1), the affected heterozygotes had
half-normal PBG-deaminase activity. In three families (desig-
nated CRIM-negative type 2). symptomatic patients had in-
creased urinary excretion of §-aminolevulinic acid and PBG,
and normal levels of erythrocyte PBG-deaminase activity. In
coutrast, noncatalytic, immunoreactive protein was expressed
in heterozygotes from [ft families, about one-eighth of those
studied, consistent with mutations in the structural gene for
PBG-deaminase, Two types of CRIM-positive mutations were
identified: the type | mutation had a CRIM /activity ratio of
~ 1.7 and a crossed-immunoelectrophoretic profite in which all
the enzyme intermediates were increased, with the B or mono-
pyrrole-enzyme intermediate predominant (B > A > C ~ D
>E). The mutation altered both the kinetic and stability
Properties of the noncatalytic immunoreactive enzyme protein.
The second CRIM-positive mutation, type 2, had markedly
increased levels of noncatalytic immunoreactive protein (CRINI/
activity ratio ~ 5.7), Crossed-immunoelectrophoresis revealed
markedly increased amounts of the substrate-bound interme-
diates, B, C, D, and E(B > € > D> E® A). The accumulation
of these noncatalytic enzyme intermediates presumably resulted
from the enhanced binding and/or defective release of substrate
malecules. Lhe conformation of these enzyme—substrate inter-
mediates apparently rendered the complexes more resistant to
intraerythrocyte proteolysis, These findings provide evidence
for the presence of different allelic mutations in the structural
gene for PBG-deaminase and document molecular genetic
heterogeneity in AIP.

Received for publication 13 December 1984 and in revised form 18
April 1985,

J. Chin. Invest.
«The American Society for Clinical Investigation. Inc.
002 1-9738/85/08/0865/10 $1.00

Volume 76, August 1985, 865-874

Introduction

Acute intermittent porphyria (AIP) is a dominantly inherited
inborn error of heme biosynthesis that results from the half.
normal activity of porphobilinogen deaminase (PBG-deaminase:
EC 4.3.1.8) (1-4). Clinical expression of the disease is highly
variable, determined in part by environmental. metabotic, and
hormonal factors that induce hepatic 4-aminolevulinie acid
synthase activity and the subsequent increased production of
heme precursors (5-7), Although the disease is clinically latent
in many heterozygous individuals, those who are symptomatic
usually have elevated levels of urinary PBG and its precursor.
d-aminolevulinic acid (ALA), particularly during acute attacks.
Most affected individuals can be diagnosed enzymatically (i.¢..
decreased erythrocyte PBG-deaminase activity): however,
kindreds have heen desenbed recently in which symptomatic
patients have normai levels of the ervthroeyvte PBG-deaminase
activity and markedly elevated urinary PBG and ALA levels
(8. 9),

PBG-deaminase is encoded by a structural gene located on
the distal portion of the long arm of chromosome 11 (1ig23
— I1gter) (10). The ervthrocvte enzyme has been purified to
homogeneity and its physicokinetie praperties have been char-
acterized (11). The active enzyme protein is a monomer (Mf,
~ 42.000) that catalyzes the sequential head to tail conden-
sation of four molecules of PBG to form hydroxymethyibilane.
a linear tetrapyrrole that nonenzymaticalty cyclizes to uropor-
phyrinogen LE. Hydroxymethytbilane is synthesized by a reaction
mechanism involving the stepwise formation of stable enzyme-
substrate intermediates (11-13), Five enzyme intermediates,
A-E, have been identified by chromatographic and electropho-
retic techniques, the A form being the ree enzyme and the B.
C.D. and E forms representing the mano-. di-, tri-, and tetra-
pyrrole substrate-enzyme intermediates, respectively (11, 14).
The overall Aj, for the reaction was 6 «M and kinetic studies
indicated that the C intermediate, the dipyrrale-enzyme com-
plex, was either the most stable intermediate or the rate-
limiting step in the conversion of the monopyrrole to the
tetrapyrrole (11, 14).

In a previous communication. we reported the first im-
munologic characterization of the enzymatic defect in unrelated
heterozygotes with AIP (14). Monospccitic anti-human PBG-
deaminase antibodies. which uniformly recognized each of the
enzyme untermediates, were used to quantitate and characterize
the amount of PBG-deaminase cross-reacting immunologic

1, Abbreviations used in this paper: AIP. acute intermittent parphyria:
ALA, é-aminolevulinic acid; CRIM. cross-reacting immunologic ma-
terial: DTT, dithiothreitol: PBG, porphobitinogen.

Porphobilinogen Deuminase Mutations in Acute Intermittent Porphyria 885

50576426