large amounts of ETS. A study is therefore proposed to examine the kinetics of
thé @ccumulation and disappearance of similar levels of blood carboxyhemoglobin
in animals exposed to either pure CO, or to the CO Present in MSS or SSS.
Different animal species would be used (rat, mousé, hamster, guinea Pig), to
Provide base-line information on longer term experiments using animal
exposures. The prime endpoints would be blood COHb, p02 and pcdz2.

Along with CO, there is considerable concern on the accumulation in non-smokers
of nicotine derived from ETS. We therefore Propose to expose animals to smoke
from cigarettes labelled with 14C-dotriacontane, to determine at equi-TPM
deliveries the comparative deposition patterns produced by SSS and MSS.
Samples with different SSS/MSS ratios for TPM could he used, as could
autoradiography. Following this initial work, 14C-labelled nicotine spiked
into cigarettes will be used instead of the dotriacontane, using the same
exposure conditions. Information will thus be obtained on the likely transfer
of ETS nicotine to non-smokers. An integral part of this work would be an

examination of clearance rates.

Longer-term studies on for example reproduction and immunosuppression can he
considered after the completion of initial dose-setting. Thus 1{4- and 9@-day
expasures at equi-TPM would be used for both $s5 and MSS, again with
Cambridge-filtration an option, with the standard package of toxicological
endpoints. Some of these endpoints were discussed in an earlier note, prepared
by Randy Deskin and myself. Additional endpoints would include the assessment
of cardio-respiratory function. These studies could eventually be considered
in house, although any longer-term studies (2-year chronic studies) should be

contracted out.

The concept of nose-only exposures for teratology studies needs further
thought, because of the likelihood of increased rates of spontaneous abortion
4S a result of the animal restraint and also because of the irritation of the
test material.

C.R.E. Coggins
It Qctober 1985

 

’
aie
on

a.
oS:
=
nN
N
wa!
oo
wo
|

 

concn og