be absorbed during grooming (not the case in the whole~body exposures of man).
There may be problems if chronic exposures are contemplated, in that the
amounts ingested would be considerable.
Preliminary discussions with Dr. Charlie Green indicate that his group can
- generate test aerosols adequate for the above experiments, and that the
particles are indeed respirable. Work is currently in hand to determine how
this expertise can be translated into inhalation studies : certainly with the
chamber size used by Dr. Green such studies could be carried out in house, but
on only a limited number of animals. It should be possible to automate animal
exposures so that animals receive several hours of smoke per day. The study
should be placed extra-murally if a large number of animals are to be exposed
simultaneously.

When nose-only exposures are considered for the toxicological study of ETS the
following (non-exhaustive) list of possible studies is available. All of the
studies mentioned could be done in house.

Inhalation machines (THRI initially, Battelle-Geneva subsequently) could be
used to expose laboratory animals to SSS or MSS at equi-TPM . These animals
could be used in a wide range of in vivo studies of genetic toxicology. This
could be direct testing (e.9. sister chromatid exchange) or indirect (e.g.
examination of the mutagenicity of urine). I suggest that a major part of any
experiments should be the study of SSS/MSS with the exclusion of TPM i.e.
Cambridge-filtered smoke. This is because it is considered that the TPM of MSS
contains the causative agent(s) of the excretion of mutagenic urine in smokers,
although no work has been done on smokers exposed only to vapor phase. It
sia would be simple to study the dose response and kinetics of any changes induced
we by exposures to MSS or SSS, along with the reversibility of the changes. It is
not known how much smoke is required in human smokers for mutagens to be
excreted, nor is it known whether non-smokers exposed to ETS also excrete
-Mutagens. Such an experiment would yield useful information on both questions,
in turn related to the debate on whether pulmonary carcinogenesis can be caused
im non-smokers by exposure to ETS. This in vivo genetic toxicology is much
more meaningful than is the in vitro work, because all of the smoke is tested.

Inhalation machines could also be used to examine the dose response for sensory
irritation (the Alarie test) in mice, using a range of different smoking
materials. Cambridge filtration of $SS and MSS is again indicated : it is
likely that a significant part of the irritative effects of SSS are in the
vapor phase, and this needs to be verified. It is also likely that many of
these irritant components (e.g. the aldehydes) present in 5SS are derived from
the combustion/pyrolysis of the wrapper (paper) rather than from the
combustion/pyrolysis of the tobacco. Work on different paper types and
comparison with natural wrappers (cigars) could be integrated into this series
of experiments. We could also perform studies on cigarettes which make claims
such as “sidestream free" (e.g. our own CC and Rothmans' PASSPORT) through the
use of additives in the wrapper.

96nL fZH0S

Carbon monoxide has been used by many groups as a marker for exposure to ETS. .-
Although CO does have several disadvantages as such a marker (primarily because
of sources other than ETS), it is likely that non-smokers may experience
elevations in their background level of blood carboxyhemoglobin when exposed to