7 snOvTCOORY stuntes: ow ers” *

This note describes approaches to evaluate the toxicology of Environmental
Tobacco smoke (ETS), using exposures of laboratory animals to sidestream smoke
(SSS) and mainstream smoke (MSS). I have not taken into consideration any in
vitro genetic toxicology, in that I think the testing should be on whole smoke
and not on condensate. The animal work can be divided into 2 main areas

- whole-body exposures of animals to SSS, and a comparison of the responses
obtained with those obtained in animals exposed to room air.

- nose-only comparisons of MSS and SSS (at equi-TPM presentations)

In addition to the work on the "specific activity“ of ETS, I believe that the
animal work should reflect those problems with ETS which the public conceive as
being important. These include a cumulative “irritancy” (important both to the
smoker and to the non-smoker), pulmonary carcinogenesis, and reproductive
effects. There is also concern about the levels of nicotine and

carboxyhemoglobin seen in non-smokers as aresult of their exposure to S$5S.-

Finally, there seems to be recent evidence implicating immunosuppression in
young children who are exposed to ETS.

The approach of exposing animals whole-body to SSS requires careful
consideration. The doses suggested by the EPA as being the likely additive
contribution of ETS to generalized air pollution (25ug per cubic meter) are
very small indeed, and it could take technical skill to generate consistently
such an aerosol for animal exposures. The levels are low enough to be within
the noise levels of detection, and may be impractical for inhalation work (n.b.
the doses are around one eighty-thousandth of the doses used routinely in our
comparative inhalation studies with MSS). Assuming that such SSS levels are
technically feasible, it is important to define against what TPM level this SSS
concentration would be compared. It is clear that HEPA-filtered air with
effectively zero TPM will have no effect on rats. Any SSS concentration will
appear as being biologically more active than this control. There is thus no
possibility of determining a NOEL using this approach. A better approach would
be to compare $55 with ambient TPM levels found ina standard room with
standard ventilation : current evidence shows that such rooms could reasonably

be expected to have TPM concentrations of around 100 ug/m3. This should be
the control exposure level. —

Notwithstanding the above, whale-body exposures to SSS could be achieved,
possibly by using very large chambers, only a small number of cigarettes, very
high dilution rates, and long exposures (e.g. 2@h/d). The-technical problems
associated with such exposures are manifold, the most important probably being
the lack of dosimetry data (the same problems exist for monitoring exposure to
SSS in animals as exist for man). This is exemplified by the very low doses
suggested : a doubling of the baseline level of blood carboxyhemoglobin
resulting from endogenous production. This simple doubling would be very
difficult to measure reproducibly. We are not sure at the moment if plasma
nicotine can be used as a marker for SSS exposure. There are further
complications related to the varying amounts of dilution which will be required
to produce the different test aerosols. These different dilutions are likely
to produce aerosols with different physical characteristics, which in turn may
affect deposition in a major way. In whole-body exposures a very considerable
part of the test aerosol is likely to deposit on the animal’s fur, and thence

wy

/G6RLizZ4N0S }

3
x

‘
4
emit eneeeat ated Bone tse salem, tm

 

+o ne eter AASNNORRANERSS Ate TENANTS *