Tue JouRNAL oF Bipwocscat CHemistry
Vol. 265, No. 10, Issue of May 25, pp, 46874690, 1980
Printed in U.S.A.

‘Role of Chemical Reagents in the Activation of Rat Hepatic

Glucocorticoid-Receptor Complex*

(Received for publication, December 3, 1979, and in revised form, February 11, 1980)

Mohammed Kalimi+ and Karen Love

From the Department of Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Yeshiva University, New York, New York 10461

The effect of sulfhydryl modifying reagents on the
activation of hepatic glucocorticoid-receptor complex
wag studied. Unactivated (preincubated at 0°C) (*H}
dexamethasone-receptor complex pretreated with N-
ethylmaleimide or iodoacetamide at 0°C and then
treated at 25°C was unable to bind to rat liver nuclei.
On the other hand, [*H]dexamethasone-receptor com-
plex first incubated at 25°C and then treated with N-
etbylmaleimide or iodoacetamide showed marked bind-
ing to nuclei, comparable to that obtained with acti-
vated cytosol. The results suggest that sulfhydryl mad-
ifying reagents act at the level of unactivated glucocor-
ticoid-receptor complex, blocking its activation and
binding ta nuctei.

It was previously shown that pyridoxal phosphate
inhibits the binding of “activated” dexamethasone-re-
ceptor complexes to DNA-cellulose in vitro (Cake, M.
H., DiSorbo, D, M., and Litwack, G. (1978) J. Biol. Chem.
253, 4886-4891). We have characterized both the N-
ethylmaleimide-treated and the pyridoxal phosphate-
treated [*Hjdexamethasone-receptor complexes by
agarose gel filtration and sucrose-gradient centrifuga-
tion; we found that whereas pyridoxal phosphate-
treated cytosol at 0°C showed a considerable amount
of a smaller fragment of the receptor that was unable
to bind to nuclei, N-ethylmaleimide-treated cytosol was
totally devoid of this smaller fragment, and resembled
untreated, unactivated cytosol. The sulfhydryl modify-
ing reagents would appear to tock the receptor into an
intact unactivated form as opposed to pyridoxal phos-
phate that degrades the molecule into smaller units.
Thus, N-ethylmaleimide treatment may be valuable in
the purification of the unactivated form of the receptor
to homogeneity.

 

The formation of the ghucocorticoid-receptor complex in
the cytoplasm of the target cells for the hormone, and its
activation and translocation to the nuclear acceptor sites, are
believed to be of primary importance in the induction of
certain enzymes in hepatoma and liver cells (1-3}. We have
shown previously that the binding of glucocorticaids to the
receptor proteins is markedly inhibited by treatment of the
rat liver cytosol with various sulfhydryl modifying reagents
(4). Subsequently, Young e¢ a. (5), using Mouse mammary
tumors and hamster kidney (BHK) cell lines, observed that

* This work was supported by Grants AM24059-01 and AG 00374
from the National Institutes of Health. The costs of publication of
this article were defrayed in part by the payment of page charges.
This article must therefore be hereby marked “advertisement” in
accordance with 18 U.S.C, Section 1734 solely to indicate this fact.

} Present address, Department of Physiology, Medical College of
Virginia, Richmond, Virginia, 23298. To whom correspondence should
be addressed.

sulfhydryl modifying reagents not only inhibit the binding of
glucocorticoids to the receptor proteins but also inhibit the
hinding of preformed hormane-veceptor complex to DNA. It
was not clear, however, whether sulfhydryl reagents block the
activation of glucocorticoid recepter-complex or its subse-
quent binding to nuclear receptor sites. Although some un-
derstanding has been achieved concerning the phenomenon
of temperature-dependent activation of rat liver glucocorti-
coid-receptor complex, the precise mechanism of in vitro
activation is not yet known (6-10). The present paper reports
evidence suggesting that sulfhydryl reagents block the acti-
vation of the glucocorticoid-receptor complex ( per se) and not
its subsequent binding to nuclear acceptor sites.

EXPERIMENTAL PROCEDURES

Methods

Materials—[1,2,4-"H]Dexamethasone (31 Ci/mmol) was obtained
from New England Nuclear, with radiochemical purity periodically
checked by thin layer chromatography as described previously {11}.
Nonradioactive dexamethasone, pyridoxal 5’-phosphate, &-mercap-
toethanol, and iodvacetamide were purchased from Sigma. N-ethyl-
maleimide was obtained from Fluka AG Chemische Fabrik, Switzer-
land.

Male Sprague-Dawley rats (from Charles River Breeding Labora-
tories}, 150 ta 200 g, were adrenalectomized bilaterally 7 to 9 days
before use and were maintained on standard Purina Chow, 0.9% NaCl
solution, and water ad libitum.

Preparation of Cytosol—Animals were killed by cervical disloca-
tion, and the livers were perfused in situ with ice-cold TS buffer (10
mM Tris-HCl, 0.25 m sucrose, pH 7.5) and homogenized in a solution
(1:2, w/v) of the same buffer, The homogenates were filtered through
cheesecloth and centrifuged at 2,000 x g in a Sorvall SS 34 rotor at
2°C for 10 min to sediment a crude nuclear pellet, The cytosol fraction
was prepared by centrifuging the homogenate at 240,000 x g for 60
min at 0-4°C. The upper fatty layer was discarded and the cytosol
was carefully removed and used for steroid binding studies. The
cytosol was diluted to yield a protein concentration of approximately
2 mg/ml. The cytosol was then incubated with 5 107 m ("H]-
dexamethasone in the presence or absence of a 1000-fold excess of
nonradioactive dexamethasone. After incubation for 2 h at 0°C to
allow maximal binding, the specific macromolecular-bound fraction
of steroid was determined using the charcoal-dextran technique (12).

Treatment of Cytosol with Chemical Reagents—Pyridoxal 5’-phos-
phate, iodoacetamide, and N-cthylmaleimide were prepared in con-
centrated stock solutions (100 mm, pH 7.5) prior to use in the
experiments. Cytosol containing pyridoxal 5’-phosphate, iodoaceta-
mide, or N-ethytmaleimide was incubated for 30 min at 0°C in the
dark.

Nuclear Binding Assay—Nuclei were purified fram the 2,000 x g
pellet using 1.8 »1 sucrose in 10 mm Tris, pH 7.5, containing 0.025 w
KCl and 3 mm MgCl: as previously described (13). The washed nuclei
were suspended in homogenization buffer. Aliquots of the nuclear
suspension containing 50 yg of DNA were centrifuged at 2,000 x g
for 5 min at O°C and the supernatant fractions were discarded.
(H]Dexamethasone-treated cytosal (0.2 ml) was added and a final
volume of 1 mi of reaction mixture was made by addition of humog-
enization buffer. The nuclei were resuspended by gently stirring with
@ Vortex mixer, and the suspension was incubated fur 30 min at 0°C.
Following incubation, the nuclei were removed by centrifugation at

4687

 

 

40033964