tof Hg FID

7. CONCLUSIONS

The Advisory Committee on Pesticides (ACP} concluded that there was no
evidence of a risk of cancer or other adverse health effects to consumers
arising from the use of ethylene bisdithiocarbamaces (EBOC'’s) in the UK.

the findings in toxicology studies with EBOC’s were all attributable to
the effect of ethylene thiourea (£TU}. at doses above the threshold or

""no-effect level the major finding in rodents fed a constant diet containing

- ETU was an alteration in thyroid hormone levels. fn rodents these chances

“ean, rf persistent, lead to the production of thyroid tumours. However,

tumours caused in this way commonly regress rapidly when dosing ceases.
Furthermore, the thyroid function of rats and husans differs markedly; rats
are much more sensitive to thyroid stimulation-and even when stimulation of
the human thyroid occurs (for example in iodine deficiency) this does not
, normally lead to the formation of tumours. The ACP agreed that only: |

., continuous exposure to ETU at doses which persistently elevate serum levels

of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH): presented any risk; levels likely to
be encountered in the diet of extreme consumers were much lower than these
and therefore present no risk. .

There was no evidence that ETU or any of the EBOC's were mutagenic in-vivo.
The one study which claimed that exposure of workers involved in the
formulation of mancozeb products resulted in chromosome aberrations was
considered to be scientifically invalid.

Even though not directly relevant to human risk evaluation the basis for
setting no-effect levels in rodent studies has been taken as the highest
dose which caused no thyroid hormone imbalance. This no-effect level was
used in calculating safety margins for humans. Even when all “worst casa"
assumptions are made, including consideration of different age groups and
extreme consumers, predicted consumer intake of EBOC's and ETU from treated
foodstuffs are at acceptable levels. The use of these fungicides on wncst
and potatoes (the most common uses in the UK) does not lead to detectable
‘residues of EBDC's or ETU in foodstuffs based on these commodities.
Residues in treated apples and pears and in processed products sade froa
these fruits are at safe levels. ”Aesidues in a few samples of treated
lettuce and spinach while at safe levels could and should be reduced.

SEE9EZI OS?

76