Ge

etme tee Wee

oA LUA ne, me et le

Oe ae msmanmasneamamneneramidenatl

ane

we ee ey

19s

3.6 Human toxicity

An epidemological study was conducted on workers exposed to ETU in the
rubber industry in England. The objectsves of the Study were to determine
2£ women who had worked with ETuU during early pregnancy bore children with
an excessive frequency of birth Gefects, and :f the incidence of Shyroid
cancer was higher in workers of either sex who had been exposed to Fry.
Of 599 women of childbearing age who had left
factory between 1963 and 1971, 255 were traced through the City of

Birmingham birth records. 11 of their 420 children had abnormalities, -he
same frequency as for the city in general.

employment in a rubber

The paper also comments on the absence of abnormalities among the children
of workers at a larger rubber works using ETU in Ross-on-Wye.

In the second part of the study, the names of 1929 workers in rubber plants
and an £TU manufacturing plant were compared with thyroid cancer list in
the Birmingham Cancer Registry (1957-1971). None of these workers had

thyroid cancer. The expected thyroid cancer rate in that area is 2.6 per
100,000.

Whilst acknowledging the limitations of the study, the paper concludes that
“no indisputable case of human disease resulting from contact with ETU has
been reported in 25 years of industrial use".

(Smith 1976)

Tn a study on thyroid function two groups of workers were investigated.
Levels of T,, TSH and thyroid binding globulin (TBG) were measured in
workers involved in the manufacture of ETU (process workers) or in the
mixing of ETU with rubber (mixers) using ETU. These values were compsred
with controls who were not involved in the sanufacture or use of ETU. The
TSH levels were within normal limits in the control group and in the
process workers, In one mixer TSH levels were unusually high on two
occasions. In exposed workers T, levels were lower than control levels.
The T, levels fcr all $ sixers were below the sean and $5% confidence
intervals for tha control group. Only one worker ( the one with elevated
TSH levels) was considered to be hypothyroid on biological testing. In the
manufacturing plant ETU levels of up to 330yug/m" were found on one personal
sanpler, background levels were 10 to 240ug/m". Levels of ryu recorded on
personal samplers of saixers were in the range 120 to 160ug/a°. The paper
concluded that there was no evidence that thyroid function was severely
affected by tha levels of ETU that the workers were exposed to. The paper
also refers to studies conducted in the United States. Two studies
conducted by Rohm and Haas found that there waa no significant effect on
thyroid function in Dithane ganufacturers. The tests aeasured T,, T and
TSH. (Gordon 1977, Braverzan 1977). In another study the thyroid function
of 54 workers (43 exposed 17 controls) at a plant producing ETU was
investigated by measuring T, and T, levels. This study concluded that
there were very slight dittarences between exposed and control workers.
(hybarger 1978) . (Saith 1964)

38

£2E9EZ LOS