Age

to form thyroxine, which is still trapped in thyroglobulin. ror the
secretory process, thyroglobulin is engulfed by pseudopods at the
apical border of the follicular lumen and resolved into vesicles that
fuse with lysosomes. Lysosomal protease breaks down thyroglobulin co
amino acids, thyroxine (T.), tri-irodothyronine (T.), dirredotyrosing
(DIT) and mono1odotyrosine (MIT). Tf and T, are Jecreted by the cei:
nto the blood. OIT and MIT are dercdinated te free tyrosine ang - .
1od:de, soth of which are recycled back into 1cdinated thyreglooulin.
Reproduced by permission: Goodman and van Middlesworth (1980)

6.3.9.2 Regulation of thyroid hormone Synthesis

-, Levels of circulating thyroid hormones are regulated by a sensitive

feedback mechanisna involving the hypothalasus/pituitary/thyroid axis.
Thyroid hormone .synthesis is triggered by the thyroid stisulating hormone
(TSH) secreted by the anterior Pituitary gland. As a result of TSH
Stimulation, itodide uptake, iodination of thyroglobulin and endocytosis ard
proteolysis of the thyroglobulin complex 18 increased. The release of TSH
from the pituitary is controlled by thryotropin releasing hormone (TRH) and
by circulating levels of thyroxine (T,) and tri~iodothyronine (T.).
Administration of exogenous thyroid néemones suppresses the secrition of
TRH. A decrease in the Circulatory level of thyroid horaones results in an
increase in secretion of TSH and a consequent increase in thyroid function.

Thryroid hormones are transported in blood az plasma protein complexes. In
humans the main carrier protein is thyroxine binding globulin. This
carrier protein is not found in rodents, cats or rabbits. Other carrier
proteins have a lower affinity for the thryroid hormones. In humans only
about 0.03% of T, in circulation is normally free and available for cell
membrane penetration, metabolism or excretion. In the absence of thyroxine
binding globulin more thyroid hormone circulates in an unbound form and is
subject to metabolism and removal from the body. The half life of T, in
the rat is only 12-24 hours compared with 6-7 days in humans. one
consequence of the increased turnover of thyroid hormone in the rat is that
more TSH is secreted. Serum TSH levels in humans are approximately

2.5 uU/ml, whereas in the rat, serum TSH levels range from 55.5 to 63 uU/al
in males and 36.5 to 41 yU/al in females. ,

Inhibition or blockadeof any of the steps involved in T, and T, synthesis
results in increased TSM-secretion which in turn induces hypertdophy in the

‘thyroid gland. If hormone balance is not restored, hyperplasia of the

thyroid follicular cells and the TSH secreting cells of the pituitary *
results. If hormonal imbalance is maintained over a long period of tise
neoplastic changes may be induced in the thyroid follicular cells and the
anterior pituitary _
(Paynter 1988)

‘ Sot ao (Hill 19869) .
Thyroid function in animals and humans is affected in a sinilar fashion by
various factors such as lack of dietary iodide, blockade of iodide .
transport sechanisas, interference with thyroid hormone synthesis and
enhanced peripheral metabolism of thyroid horsories. “Nowever there does not
appear to be any similarity in the occurrence of thyroid tumours. For

Leege2z1 Oe

mN