~~,

CoOmacnarts

This document reviews the available da
mutagenicity and teratogenicity of ETU
Carbamates (along with resuits of other toxacity studies relevant to
thyroid function). rt also considers the likely “worst case" consumer
exposure. It 1.¢ considered not 4ppropriate to propose a formal ADI for the
ethylene bisdith:.ocarbamates as a result of these considerations since such
ADi’s should be based on the most eritical no effect level from the whole.
soxicology database. However risk evaluation can be carried out by

calculation of safety factors, comparing consumer exposure levels with
no-effect levels froa toxicity studies.

ta relating to the carcinogenicity,
and the ethylene bisdithio-

For genotoxic carcinogens, where any human exposure would be a cause for
concern, if 18 generally accepted that no safety factor, however targe. can
be considered to provide adequate assurance of safety. The mutagenicity
Studies reviewed in this document show no evidence that £TU or the ethylene
bisdithiocarbamates are genotoxic in-vivo. The paper by Jablonicka whicn
Claimed that exposure to mancozeb was associated with an increase in
‘chromosome aberrations was seriously flawed. The paper only took smoking
anto account in a crude way, the description of the control group was too
. Vague and provided no information on what other chemicals they were exposed
‘to. In the exposed group there was a higher incidence of chromosome
aberrations in the non-smoking group than in the smoking group. Since
smoking is known to produce an increase in chromosome aberrations such a

finding casts serious doubts on the reliability of the results of this
study.

This document has identified a number of potential areas of concern, these
are discussed below.

1 6.1 Areas of toxicological concern
6.1.1 Thyroid tumours

‘The studies considered here show that in rodents there is a progression of
events which occur ag a result of an imbalance in thyroid hormones. The
first observed effects are a reduction in serum thyroid horaone
concentrations resulting in an elevation of serum TSH levels. Prolonged
elevation in TSH levels resulta in hypertrophy and hyperplasia of thyroid
follicular cells. ‘This say progress to nodular hyperplasia and neoplasia.
‘The sechanisa by which thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia progresses to
-necplasia has not been established. However, recent work has indicated

.' o,¢that indyetion of cell division, which can progress te hyperplasia, and the

". transformation of normal to altered (neoplastic) cells are the result of a
complex interaction of different cell systaas. In the case of thyroid
follicular cell carcinogenesis TSH appears to be one component of these
interactions. When TSH interacts with receptors on the surface of the
thyroid cell it induces adenyl cyclase with the resultant production of

-CAMP. In addition TSH also induces the prote-oncogenes c-fo# and c-aye and
activates the phosphatidylinositol pathway. ‘These factors together with
others such as somatomedins, epiderasl growth factor and insulin can also

, commit the thyroid cell to ONA synthesiz and cell division. The
progression from cell division to neoplasia aay well be due to spontaneous

69

ltier/>

62E9EZ10S2