“Most non-genotoxic compounds causing an increa
‘hepatocellular necrosis or a sub cellular chan
s.Proliferation. “Hepatocellular necrosis stimulates a repair process

er’involving cell proliferation. Such Fepair processes have been shown to

nz ‘induce hepatocellular ‘carcinoma if maintained for a significant portion of
t tne animals lifespan. ,

(Grasso 1988}

There are some data that Suggest ETU can induce hepatic neoplasms in mice.
In one study, liver tumours were increased at.a dietary level of 646 Ppa
#23 "(the only dose used) while an @ recent study liver tumours occurred at
dietary levels above 100 pem (15 mg/kg/day). Some of these tumours were
cTladenomas and carcinomas that arose in a background of work hypertrophy of
* the :liver (and were common in controls); others were hepatoblastomas, which
“are very care in humans but occur sore comaonly in mice, possibly as a
Vresult ‘of oestrogen stimulation. ‘ The Significance of these tumours to
chumans ‘is ‘therefore uncertain. . .
. cere 7

:

[—~ far,!-

Tt ‘is known ‘that elevated serun levels of thyroid horsones can have a

proliferative effect on rat hepatocytes (Carriere 1969, Short 1983),

“ However,” in most studies it is not clear what fraction of thyroid hornones
have been measured and since the effect of ETU is to decrease thyroid
hormone levels, it is unlikely that such a mechanisa is relevant in the

_ Case of the mouse hepatomas seen in the £TU studies. | :

Sar Pp es

6.1.3" Teratogenic effects °

Tt is well known that thyroid hormones play a major role in the development
of the central nervous Systea. It appears that the primary action of
thyroid hormones is stimulation of neuronal maturation. The number of
neurones formed before the onset of thyroid function in the fetus cannet be
modified by a lack of hormone. However the maturation of the same neurones
is affected by thyroid horaone deprivation. Thyroid hormones also exert
maturational effect on the stem cells of the later forming neurones. An
excess of thyroid hormone directs the neuronal elements from the
proliferative phase to the maturational phase.” On the other hand a
“reduction in thyroid hormone levels leads to an increased duration of the

, Proliferative period. _ . wo

x.

. (Legrand 1977)

“? Terategenie influences of early thyroid insufficiency may result frcoa
impaired OMA transcription or depressed synthesis of active proteins in the
inesture brain. Since thyroid hornones normally have a regulatory role in
the synthesis of specific proteins in nerve cells, disruption of this
procesa say result in retarded differentiation and proliferation and in a
defective establishzent of the neuronal network in the iamaturce brain.

‘

 ""(Waccart 1988)

“The thyroid hormones (T, and T,) are also involved in noresl palatal
morphosenesis. (Lamb 1986)

eeegezlOG¢

 

73