rr.

TOIT yee

In teratogenicity studies with ETU malformations were
development of the central nervous systea. In view
thyroid hormones on development of the CNS these effects are considered to
be secondary to the effect on the thyroid. This conclusion is reinforced in

the study by Emmerling which showed that co-administration of the thyroid
hormcne qv, reduced the incidence of malformations.

§.2 Conversion of ethylene bisdithiocarbamateas to FTU :

Sased on the data in the study by Nelson it can be concluded that up to 23%
of a 100 ag/kg mancozeb dose can be converted to ETU in the rat. This
figure is arrived at by using the highest figures for the excretion of ETU
in urine and bile. However, this may well be an overestinate in that this
will'also include conversion of mancozeb to £TU, by hydrolysis, once
excreted into the urine or bile. Although samples were collected over dry
ice to minimise such conversion. In a further study by DiDonato where
plasma concentration time curves are considered an ETU bioavailability of
6.4% 18 indicated. For maneb available data suggest that up to 13.6% of a
25mg/kg dose may be converted to ETU. However again this may include
conversion after excretion. For metiram the data indicate a conversion of

restricted to
of the known effect of

“up to 9.5% of a $ mg/kg dose. For Zineb data indicate that 22% of a 50

mg/kg dose can be converted to ETU is the rat and the aarnoset.

The figures for the conversion of ESD0C's to ETU quoted above are all based
on total C with no conversion for relative molecular weights. Applying
this conversion factor the maximus in-vivo conversion of EBOC's to ETU is:

102 x 23 _.. = 8.7%
270 = -° 7

6.3 Safety factors for consumers

Residues of EBOC and ETU may be present in food prepared from treated
crops. Consumers may be expesed to ethylene thiourea either by direct
ingestion of ETU or metabolism of ingested EBOC. Secause of the nature of
the assumptions on which the calculations are based it is not appropriate
to'sum theoretical maxiaum intake based on different commodities. For
example, if it has been assused that a consumer of large amounts of apples
May in one day eat only apples containing highest likely residues then it
is not reasonable to also assume that that individual sight consumes lots of
soft fruit also containing highest likely residues. | . Lo .

Theoretical saximum-daily exposures to ETU have been calculated:

adults (60kg) 0.001 ag/kg bw/day
children(20kg) 0.003 ag/kg bw/day
infants(10kq) 0.006 mg/kg bw/day

Supplementary calculations have been sasde for lettuce and spinach as there
is evidence that these commcdities aay occasionally contain high residues
of EBOC's. For adults, theoretical maximum daily exposure for these
commodities does not exceed 0.03 ag/kg bw/day.

74

HELIEZ IOS?