rr)

qt
4.

vt

a>
e

- "ps

TT gp ep is . a . . ~~

example in regions where iodine deficiency is endesic,
stimulation is observed in humans but there is
Carcinogenic effect.

chronic TSH
no evidence of a

(Cooper 1981)

ETU and similarly acting antithyroid drugs have been
oxidation of :odide (Greer, 1950, 1962).
on the dose and potency of the compound.
negligible effect on oxidising capacity to complete blockade. When
inhibition 28 prolonged T, and T. are Supplied from reserves (Nodine et
al). The exact amounts of T, and T vary from individual to individual bu:
approximately !% of the storéd hormone is released each day. It is

estimated that the normal human thyroid has about three months supply...

. of Ty:

shown t. inhibit che
The degree of inhsortion depends
The effect can range from 3

(Best 1961)

.A study with propylthiouracil, a thyroid inhibitor with a similar sode of
action to ETU showed that in vitrd the concentration of propylthiouracil
required for inhibition of monkey thyroid peroxidase was 100 times greater
than for the rat. oo

(Takayama 1986)

Because ETU produces tumours in animals by a secondary "Physiological'
mechanism, a threshold is found below which tumours are net induced. Since
TSH provides the primary proliferative drive on the thyroid, serua TSH
levels can reasonably be used to assass the risk of likely thyroid
proliferative effects. Coses of ETU that do not persistently elevate serun
TSH levels can be regarded as having no significant risk. Since elevation
‘of serum TSH occurs soon after administration of a goitrogen, and
stabilises quickly with continued desing, short-term (2-3 aonth) studies
can be used to assess the risk of thyroid proliferation.

Assessments such as thyroid weight or the frequency of induced thyroid
tumours are rather crude methods of measuring goitrogenic potential, while
histological assessment of hyperplasia, unless carried out using careful
and time consuming morphometric methods (which are not used in sost
toxicological assessments), are unreliable. Although a persistently
elevated TSH level is considered to be the best measure of potential
thyroid efZects by a goitrogen, most studies of ETU failad to seasure TSH
levels. TSH levels were neasured in one poor short-term monkey study. . The
only other study wag a 90 day rat study (Freudenthal 1977), in which .
elevated TSH levels occurred at dietary levela exceeding 25ppa LTU
(equivalent to 1.76 ag/kg bw/day).

6.1.2 Mouse hepatomas

There is a wide variation in the incidence of liver tumours among different
straing and stocks of sice. Thers also appears to be a greater occurrence
and variation in the incidence of these tuacurs in aaie mice. This
variation probably has a hormonal basis. Several nutritional factors ..
modify the expression of liver tumours in mice. An increase in diatary
protein or fat can produce an increased incidence. Other factors such as
fibre content asy influence spontaneous livér tumour incidence by altering
the intestinal bacterial flora.

(Maronpot et al 1987)

72

ZEL9EZLOS2