* The reinvestment of substantial excess funds generated internally has historically added to per-share earnings
growth, either through acquisition or share repurchase. In 1999, the latter use of excess funds has been by far the
more important. The company's massive share repurchase program was re-started in early 1999, and the rate of
decrease in average shares outstanding has moved up throughout the year just ended. The year-to-year downward
movement in shares outstanding reached a high 4% level in the final quarter of 1999, reflecting what is expected to
be the largest year of excess cash generation in the history of Philip Morris. Further revealing strengthening excess
cash flow patterns, interest costs declined sharply in the just reported quarter.

OTHER POURTH-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS

Along with the above key patterns, the following elements characterized the recently reported fourth-quarter Philip
Morris results:

* Worldwide unit volume moved down only 3%, or less than half the rate of deterioration experienced in the first
nine months,

* Although constant throughout the quarters of 1999, the Philip Morris fourth-quarter tax rate moved up sharply
from the prior-year level. This significantly lowered net income growth relative to that experienced by pretax
earnings.

* Cost of Goods Sold in the fourth-quarter moved up at a rate twice that of revenues, resulting in gross margin
deterioration.

* Interest expense declined sharply, moving down a full 19% to $168 million. This represents the largest decline of
any 1999 three-month interval and clearly reveals the company’s accelerating excess cash flow when combined with
the increasing rate of decrease being experienced by average shares outstanding.

* Earnings performance by the company’s International Food operations continues to deteriorate, with fourth-
quarter earnings per share only reaching the prior-year level.

Additional Information Available Upon Request

This report was prepared by Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. ("BBH") and is for information purposes only. BBH does not undertake to advise
you of changes in its opinions or information. This report is not intended as an offer to sell or a solicitation to buy securities. ‘The information
contained herein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but is not necessarily complete and its accuracy cannot be guaranteed.
Any opinions expressed are subject to change without notice, This information may not be suitable for all investors depending on their financial
position and investment objectives. Please contact the named analyst or your BBH representative for additional information. The report has been
prepared for use by the intended recipient(s) only. BBH & Co.'s partners and employecs may now own securities in the subject of this report .
and/ot may make purchases or sales while this report is in circulation. Any dissemination, distribution or copy of this communication without
prior approval from BBH is prohibited.

 

 

To our readers in the United Kingdom: This publication has been issued by BBH and is distributed in the United Kingdom by Brown Brothers
Harriman Ltd., which is regulated by the Securities and Futures Authority. All of the disclosures listed above also apply to Brown Brothers
Harriman Ltd.

First Call Corporation, a Thomson Financial company.

All rights reserved. 888.558.2500

]

EON

RJR0000001 129069595
70060 0023856

€269 g80e¢