04:50pm EST 28-Jan-00 Brown Brothers Harriman (Burry, R.D., CFA) MO
MO; FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS REVEALED STRENGTH IN KEY ARBAS

BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BRBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH BBH
BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CQ.
ROY D. BURRY, CPA (212) 493-8276
MO: FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS REVEALED STRENGTH IN KEY AREAS

EPS ANNUAL P/E Dividend
PHiCG snare na cree en annneereneenenennemneene cote ante tnae nines dotdsastens tne ste ater oesiatare sats etek rare 3-Yr
127 12/98 12/99 12/00E 12/99 12/00 Rate Yid.  Grwth

MO $20 7/8 $3.17 $3.30 $3.75 6.3 5.6 $1.92 9.2% 12%
STOCK FINALLY STABILIZES AT DEPRESSED LEVEL

Following its precipitous decline, the Philip Mortis stock seems to have stabilized at a price around one-third of its
all-time high. Much of this deterioration occurred during an interval of strong overall market gains. The equity of
the world's largest producer of tobacco products currently trades at a record low valuation as depicted by current
relative multiple and dividend yield. This depressed valuation level results from investor concern over remaining
major areas on the political/litigation scene. Most important in this regard is the current trial involving three
plaintiffs during the second phase of the Engel class-action trial currently underway in Florida and expected to
conclude in early March.

Recently reported fourth-quarter results, although on target relative to general expectations, did little to lessen these
uncertainties. It remains clear that outside factors, rather than fandamental devclopments, continuc to drive the
Philip Morris common,

However, all the quarters of 1999, especially the three-month interval just reported, reveal increasing strength in
those areas dominating the Philip Morris fundamentals.

STRENGTH IN KEY AREAS

Both historically and in the future, the Philip Morris fundamentals are dominated by the high profitability and
resulting positive cash flow of domestic tobacco operations, top-line volume growth generated from international
cigarette subsidiaries, and extremely high levels of excess cash flow generated internally and most recently used
primarily for share re-purchase.

* Profit per unit has risen from the prior-year and prior-quarter Icvels in all of the quarters of 1999. In the fourth
quarter, the increase in this key measure exceeded the lessening rate of volume decrease, and domestic tobacco
operating profits, therefore, once again began to increase, The restoration of high and gencrally rising profitability
are expected to permit continuation of internal generation of huge amounts of excess funds, as well as support at
least moderate U.S. operating profit gains.

* By far, the most rapidly growing segment of Philip Morris' business has been International Tobacco operations.
The combination of growing worldwide cigarette demand and major compctitive advantages possessed by the
industry leader has permitted shipment growth well into the 5% -- 10% annual range. This favorable pattern,
however, has been interrupted in recent years. The most recently reported quarter extended the trend toward
improving profit comparisons and diminished shipment declines.

RJRO000001 129069595
70060 0023855

&269 sgoe¢