@=® CONFID

xc: Brand R&D Mers.
INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM Winston-Salem. N.C. 27102

MQ. re NOG

RIR

December 14, 1983

ENTIAL

Subject: Weekly Highlights
R&D Technical Services

To: Dr. G. R. Di Marco

ITEMS FOR WEEKLY BRIEF

@ FTC Market Sample - Pickup of the next market sample for 'tar' and nicotine
testing is nearing completion. Only three of the fifty cities remain. The
report on the previous market sample has been in the hands of the Comnis-
sion for approximately two months now with no apparent reason for the delay
in release.

e Disk Refined Stems - The last of the construction work on the Pilot facili-
ty is under way. Disk refined stems can be distinguished from eut filler
by image analysis. It should be possible to qualify stem content by this
technique.

GENERAL ITEMS

e Nitrate in Tobacco - A modification of our standard MB He method for
waste water is ng evaluated for determination of ni rate content of
tobacco. Preliminary data show Slightly lower values than with our current
method and the erratic behavior of certain types of samples displayed with
the specific ion method has not been observed. Precision and
reproducibility is quite good and additional work is in progress to inves-
tigate the accuracy of the method for tobacco analyses.

e@ Protos Modification ~ Design problems were discovered sometime ago in the
suction r of the Protos Cigarette Maker. This caused problems in
making uniform, firm tobacco rods at high speeds. Hauni has been making

cew 7 modifications to Manufacturing machines over the past several months. The

~

“oO

' R&D Plant's Protos was modified last week and is now back in operation.

@ SIP Test Products - An investigation is underway to determine equipment
cost and manpower needs for the R&D Plant to more fully support STP's wet
Snuff, smoking and chewing tobacco test products. This should be complete
by the end of December.

e NIR Measurement of Menthol in Cut Filler - A newly~constructed menthol cal-
ration for samples o end showed a standard error of 0.051% over
a limited range (0.5-0/9% menthol). Standard error of prediction for a set

~

   

R.J.Reynolds Tobacco Company

9220 $090S