. EXHIBIT 5,
: PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED
VHTER-OFFICE CORRESPOHDENHCE

~ RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Tor. - Mr. L. F. Meyer bate: December 4, 1980

From: -+ Warren Claflin, Cliff Liny, Borer Martin

Subject: - Percent Tar Free" Claim On Cigarettes © a — —

A recently developed line of marketing strategy for
low delivery cigarettes. has been to claim the brand as being
" percent tar free," as opposed to using conventional FTC
tar values. In an article in Fortune (Page 121, November 17,
1980), Brown and Williamson explained that "percent tar free"
was derived by dividing the weight of tar in a puff by the
total weight of all material in a puff, including the dilution
air and the smoke stream. The smoke stream differs from the
dilution air because of the particulate phase and enhanced
quantities of the major combustion gases (carbon dioxide and
carbon monoxide). Cigarette dilution combines an air stream
with the smoke stream in a given proportion by volume and
passes the resultant nicotine through a cellulose acetate
filter to remove a fraction of the tar, nicotine, and water.
The fraction of each component removed.is different and depends
on the specific filter efficiency. The volume percent of the
gaseous components in the stream is not significantly changed
by the filtration because the particulate phase occupies such a
small percentage by volume. An air particulate stream that is,
a 90-10% ratio by weight is a 99.9-0.1% ratio by volume, -
because of the large differences in density between the gases
and solids. . oe .

The weight percent of the smoke stream was evaluated using
the data presented by Baker at the 1980 TCRC meeting in Richmond,
Virginia and is shown in Column 3 of Table 1. These numbers
are in good agreement with previous results of M. E. Hobbs,
Invited Paper, CORESTA/TCRC, Williamsburg, Va. 1972. Combining |
these values with known molecular weights (Table 1, Column 2),
the volume percent composition of the stream is evaluated and is
shown in Column 4 of Table 1. This smoke stream is then combined
with the dilution air stream in a. volume ratio (100-D):D, where
D is the cigarette dilution, to give the results shown in Column 6
of Table 1. The volume percent of tar, nicotine and water
deliveries to the smoker has been assumed to be zero and is
certainly less than 1% for high dilution cigarettes. The actual
volume percent of tar cannot be calculated without knowing the
filtration efficiency of the filter for the particulate phase,
whereas the gas stream composition is unaffected on passing
through the filter. The values in Column 7 of Table 1 are derived |
by two different methods. The tar weight is the value derived
experimentally by weighing the Cambridge pads from FTC smoking
and subtracting nicotine and water. Nicotine and water weights
are derived by extraction techniques on the Cambridge pad.

2042790056