PROCEEDINGS OF THE SOCIETY FOR EXPERIMENTAL BIOLOGY AND MEDICINE 179, 288-295 (1985)

A System for Monocytic Differentiation of Leukemic Cells HL 60 by a Short
Exposure to 1,25-Dihydroxycholecalciferol (42098)

GEORGE P. STUDZINSKI, AMARJIT K. BHANDAL, AND ZAMIR 5S. BRELVI
Department of Pathology, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical School, Newark, New Jersey 07103

 

Abstract. The human promyelocytic cell Jine HL 60 can be induced to differentiate toward
more mature myeloid or monocytic forms by a variety of agents. This process is thought to
require several days of exposure to the inducer, thus making it difficult to identify the early
cellular changes which are fundamental to the differentiation program, and to relate the
induction to phases of the cell cycle. In order to study the kinetics of leukemic cell differentiation
we have developed a system for the induction of rapid monocytic maturation in a subpopulation
of HL 60 cells. The cells are exposed to 10°? M 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol for 4 br in
serum-free medium. Subsequent incubation in a complete medium results in cellular differen-
tiation recognizable by several criteria (phagocytosis, nonspecific esterase reaction, adherence
to substratum, cell morphology) beginning at [0 hr from the exposure to the inducer.
Approximately 20 hr later 30-40% of the cells in culture show the differentiated phenotype
and are capable of phagocytosis. The proportion of differentiated cells in culture decreases
thereafter. This system has been utilized to study the expression of c-myc oncogene in relation
to the kinetics of maturation, and it was found that the inhibition of the expression of this
gene precedes the onset of phenotypic differentiation by approximately 8 hr, is transient, and
is accompanied by a brief retardation of cell proliferation, which resumes the normal rate
within 24 hr of the exposure to the inducer. © 1985 Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

a

at

HL 60 cells, isolated from a patient with
a promyelocytic leukemia (1), have provided
a useful model for maturation of leukemic
cells. In culture, these cells show a low level
of spontaneous differentiation, and essentially
complete conversion to terminally differen-
tiated forms can be induced by a variety of
chemical compounds. For instance, dimethyl
sulfoxide (2) and retinoic acid (3) produce
conversion in 6-10 days to predominantly
granulocytic cellular forms, while phorbol
esters (4), lymphocyte-conditioned medium
(5), and vitamin D derivatives (6-9) induce
the monocytic/macrophage pathway of dif-
ferentiation after 3-7 days in culture.

The long periods of time required for the
phenotypic manifestations of the inducer ac-
tion suggest that a complex series of steps is
necessary for the expression of the differen-
tiation program, and indicate to some that
the process is stochastic in nature (10, 11).
However, a relationship to a specific cell
eycle event cannot be ruled out in experi-
mental systems which utilize periods of in-
duction greater than 24 hr, since this repre-
sents almost an entire generation cycle for

optimally growing HL 60 cultures. In this
situation cells are successively recruited into
the differentiation program as they repeatedly
traverse the cell cycle in the presence of the
inducer, making it impossible to relate
changes in cell cycle-linked events to the
maturation process.

Several studies addressed the question of
the minimal length of exposure of HL 60
cells to the inducer which can result in
phenotypic expression of differentiation sev-
eral days later. Treatment with dimethyl sulf-
oxide for 12 hr resulted in granulocytic dif-
ferentiation of 20% of cells when examined
6 days later (10). Monocytic differentiation
of HL 60 cells with 1,25-dihydroxycholecal-
ciferol (1,25(OH)2D3;), one of the most potent
inducers of differentiation, appeared to re-
quire an even longer period of induction of
differentiation, being variously estimated as
30 hr (11) of 18 hr (9), for a minimal
expression of morphological or functional
indicators of monocytic differentiation, as
determined after a total of 4 (11) or 7 (9)
days. These results suggested that, relative to
events which occur at the molecular level,

288

0037-9727/85 $1.50

Copyright © 1985 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.
Ali rights reserved,

a

50285926