* PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOKD, VIRGINIA
5
Lf
a

comOreu bise. ody
To: Dr. We. P. Hempfling. Date: May 17, 1985
From: ‘L. H. Thompson

Subject: .S/M Assay - DBC Burley(BU) Control vs DBC BU Treated

 

Four smokings of three samples were submitted by you for testing in the
S/M assay (1). The objective of this study was to determine if the enzymatic
treatment of tobacco by Genecor to remove insoluble proteins would lower the
S/M activity. For this experiment, DBC BU (control) was treated with Pronase®
and washed, also BU was sham treated; i.e., washed only. IT CSCs from the
flour smokings of these handmade cigarettes. were tested in stnain TA98+S9 (2).

 

The preparation of the CSCs (10 mg/ml) was carried out by Charge No. 6908
personnel (3). The CSCs were stored at -80°C until tested. All of the CSCs
were tested randomly at doses of 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, and 0.20: mg/plate according
to the standard test procedures (4):

All of the control data (see addendum) were within normal ranges. except
for 2AA which was slightly lower than normal. Each test sample demonstrated a
dose-response and produced a response that was 2X background.

Table 1 illustrates the specific activity (S.A.) of the four smokings and
also the analysis of variance (performed using, "Minitab"). At the p>0.05
‘level of significance, the S.A.s of both the treated and sham treated samples
were lower than the DBC BU control. While this result implites that the S/M
activity can be lowered by just sham treatment or washing the tobacco, Table l
also shows a significant difference in the S.A.s of the treated and sham
treated; i.e., the S.A. of the Pronase® treated sample is lower. Since these
data indicated that enzymatic treatment of tobacco can significantly lower S/M
activity, further studies in this area may be warranted. It would be useful
to also have complete filler analysis for these test samples, especially for
total N and cations; however, this data was not available fior this experiment.
It is recommended that such analyses be included ini any future studies.

The €SCs yields (mg/cigt)i and calculated total activities (T.A.) are
reported in Table 2. Analysis of variance was also perfiormed for the T.A.
data. The difference in T.A. between the treated and sham treated samples was
due to the higher S.A. of the sham treated (Table 1) and not the CSC yield,
since the yield of both sets of samplies are nearly equall (Table 2).

N

oS

S

/mps aay
cc: Or. C.K. Ellis g
Dr. R. N. Ferguson oO

Mr. R. D. Hellams pa

Mr. W. R. McCoy ti

Dr. —. B. Sanders