TOBACCO
June 17, 1960

Tobacco Man’‘s “Bible” .. .

HTBOO026*

Heimann’s New Book Traces
History of Tobacco in U.S.

By Gerard Tetloy
“Tobaccos" Editor in Danville, Va.

One of the most comprehensive
works on the history of tobacco has
just come off the press of the McGraw-
Hill Publishing Company, New York,—
a book which gives promise of being
the tobacco man’s “Bible.”

Entitled “Tobacco and Americans,” it
is the work of Robert K. Heimann, a
tobacco expert in the field of research
and it contains 260 pages and 300
extraordinarily good illustrations. It
sells for $7.50.

The libreries are not without books
about tobacco, but this one is so
sweeping in its treatment that it will
occupy a place in many a home of
tobacco men. It begins with the dis-
covery by the Spanish freebcoters and

lorers finding in South America
inulians smoking, ‘tobago’. It then pro-
ceeds fo trace the growth of the smok-
ing habit and the development of
America’s Brst export business. Sir
Walter Raleigh and John Randolph
both grew aud shipped tobacco to
England where it was used as a barter
medium for things needed by the
Virginia colony.

Many anecdotes are contained in
this well written book and the chronol-
ogy of progress. It is a valuable history
of the social and the economic gro
of this nation. There are graphs and
charts showing the rise of smoking and
the whole history of man’s great solace
rauges from the primitive usé of smoke
to the filter tipped cigarette.

The illustrations,—-many of them
made available by the Arents Collec-
tion in the Public Library of New

York, give added zest to the book,
especially the old advertisements of
plug tobacco and cigarettes.

e rise of the Hue-cured system
and the accidental discovery that char-
coal cured tobacco a bright yellow by
a sleepy slave in Caswell county, N.C.
is developed. and the story also of
Union troops, who, foraging through
the Carolinas found granulated tobacco
at Durham, N.C., which was popular-
ized by the troops and which Vaid the
foundation of a tobacco empire.

This is no buok to Le digested at one
reading. It is good browsing material
in a cool nook with one’s favorite briar
and smoking mixture

WESTERN TOBACCO JOURNAL
Cincinnati, Chio
November 10, 1960

Book on Tobacco’s History
ls Taped for Blind “Reader

Washington — The Library of Congre:
lected the recently published book, Tob
Americans, to be recorded on magnetic tap
use by blind people throughout the count:

The bock, written by Robert K. Hein
published by McGraw-Hill, hes been p1
critics as effectively depicting the romant
ful and sometimes turbulent history of tobs
its historical, economic and social signifi
Americans aud the world.

Use of magnetic tape to record “talkin
for the blind was begun by the Library of
only a year ago. To date, about 150 titles k
recorded on tape.

Robert S. Bray, Chief of the Divisior
Blind at the library, said: “The book is av
work and very readable. Although the tii
suggest a special or narrow field of interest,
encompasses a broad scope of importani
and has a wide appeal. It has substantial e
ment and educational value, even without
dreds of illustrations.”