why the “advanced” sampling system is required for ambient (indoor/outdoor) air sampling, what
outdoor sources will be profiled, or what the approximately 50 chemical species to be measured 9 __
are or why they were chosen. A specific example of a weakness is the specification of iso-

alkanes and anteiso-alkanes as tracers for ETS with no discussion of the impact of different
background contributions due to different vegetation and burning practices in South America as
compared to the U.S. No attempt is made to justify the selection of indoor sources over other

indoor sources nor to justify the selection of tracers for the sources that are selected.

Recommendations for Improvement

This is an applied study as opposed to basic research. As such, it is essential that the
experimental plan be detailed and the selection of tracers, sources, and methods be justified.

Major Critical Points of Reviewers

A general concern is that the budget request is too small to realistically achieve the stated
objectives of the study. It is further noted that the selection of tracers (especially for ETS) are
not adequately justified/discussed, that the outdoor sources are not specified, and that the number
of samples (2 indoor and 2 outdoor) per site are too small to allow meaningful conclusions.

SAB Reviewer

The hypotheses are not only valid, they have been proven repeatedly in other locations and there
is no reason for them to be different in South America. A potentially significant and original
focus of the work is the relative importance of “city-specific” signatures to source
apportionment but this is minimally treated. As an applied study, the experimental plan must be
better defined to judge adequacy of the procedures. New and potentially important data may
result from this work but there is little likelihood of generating new concepts. The principal
investigator is especially qualified in emissions characterization and his collaborators are very
well qualified in ambient outdoor air quality work. The team is adequately qualified to perform
indoor air measurements. The budget is minimal for the amount of work proposed. The role of
the PI should be better defined for a proposed 50% level of effort.

RECOMMENDATION - This is an Applied Studies project. The PI should provide further
experimental! detail.

L6ZEVLELOS