SAB Summary Review 10/98

Acquisition of Source Signatures and Receptor Modeling
of Fine Particles and VOC Impacting Indoor Air Quality in
Santiago de Chile and Sao Paulo, Brazil

Antonio H. Miguel
University of California
Riverside, CA

Brief Description

The investigator proposes to test the hypotheses that, (a) the net transport of fine particles and
volatile organic compounds (VOC’s) indoors from outdoor air accounts for a significant fraction
of the indoor aersol in Santiago de Chile and Sao Paulo and, (b) that city-specific profiles of
major outdoor and indoor sources plus simultaneous measurements of chemical markers
outdoors and indoors can be used to apportion the major sources of VOC's and PM 2.5. Work
involves identifying and measuring city-specific source tracers in PM 2.5 and VOC’s, measuring
the tracers in outdoor and indoor air simultaneously and applying/developing a chemical mass
balance receptor-based air quality model to apportion outdoor air and indoor air source
contributions to indoor air quality. Ambient air measurements indoors and outdoors will be
made once in the morning and once in the afternoon at four restaurant locations and four office
locations divided equally as being near heavy traffic and near a “park-like” setting in each city
(metropolitan area). Two additional outdoor measurements will be made on the sidewalk near
and away form traffic to provide supplementary exposure data, The inclusion of four residences
in each city is proposed as an option. Up to fifty constituents/tracers will be measured to include
metals, acids, Total VOC’s, individual VOC’s, and selected source-specific tracers. A
highlighted component of this work is the construction and deployment of an “advanced”
(source-term/residence-time) sampling system to acquire the samples.

The CIAR is requested to fund the indoor air component of this work. Outdoor air work will be
performed by collaborating institutions in Chile and Brazil using their own resources except for
the sampling system. Two systems will be constructed using CLAR support and one will be
provided to the collaborators along with training in its use.

Strengths and Weaknesses - _

The opportunity to acquire source-apportionment data and estimates of exposure in South
American countries is important for comparison with the extensive U.S. and European database.
The essentially no-cost participation of local collaborators expert in outdoor air quality is a
strength of the proposal. The principal investigators (and his host institutions) expertise in fuels
and energy-related source contributions is a further strength. The principal weakness is an
inadequate description/justification of many aspects of the study. It is not clear, for example,

96cePrL9L02