biophysical properties and nicotine sensitivity (Fig P-1). More detailed study, combining site directed
mutagenesis and amino acid specific biochemical modification provided definitive evidence that a5
physically contributes to the channel pore and defined the specific residues within the M2 domain of a5
that line the channel in the open and closed state (see Ramirez et al., 1996 APPENDIX).
oAB2 c FIGP-4 Clearly the demonstration that a5 can
‘eet participate in operational nAChR
aiais aemaiaiaaiid ini O5ngeng) channels is important, but, in a sense,
* the most compelling aspect of this work
* is the extension of the analysis to native
a nAChRs. We have obtained two lines of
Aomplude (oh “Valage (ea evidence that support the participation of
a5 in native nAChRs in the CNS and
PNS. First, «5 deletion experiments
(described above) are consistent with
en ' nn these heterologous expression studies
v=-100n1V Ve-/0mV indicating that the influence of «5 on both
° * conductance and pharmacology are the
same in native and in in vitro expressed
nAChRs. Second, the properties of
heterologously expressed a4a5B2
complexes are identical to those of the ~
50 pS conductance class (called “L”) that we have described in detail in MHN neurons. This represents
the first demonstration that the properties of any heterologously expressed combination of a and B
nAChR subunits precisely mimics a native nAChR complex (!). In view of the novelty of these studies, an
initial report of the work was published as a full (5 page) article in Nature a few months ago. The more
extensive studies of «5 and of «7, in native nAChRs will be submitted to Neuron within the next few
months (Yu & Role, 1996 a, b).
¢. Modulation of distinct nicotine-activated channel subtypes
These studies began with our work on the modulation of nicotine activated macroscopic currents:
Studies on the effects of protein kinase C were published in J. Neurophysiol (Valenta et al.,1994). The
more recent studies of A kinase as well as more detailed study of the modulation of specific subtypes are
at various stages of completion: Neuron has two manuscripts, one of which is /n_ press; two other
manuscripts, that are related to the proposed work and acknowledge CTR support, are submitted to J.
Physiol. and Anesthesiology, respectively two manuscripts are still in preparation, but the experiments
are largely completed. Key findings are summarized below.

Studies of the modulatory effects of cAMP and PKA (using cAMP analogues and permeable A
Kinase activators and inhibitors) suggest that activation of this pathway increases the magnitude of the
macroscopic currents evoked by nicotine in neurons. A kinase activation increases V,,,, without altering
the apparent affinity for nicotine. Our search for agents that might act as the endogenous regulator(s) of A
kinase revealed, to our surprise, that micromolar PGE, - more than either VIP or CGRP as originally
proposed - consistently activated cAMP dependent kinase and modulated nicotine-gated currents. PGE,
satisfied several criteria for a potential in vivo modulator of nAChRs. Treatment of primary neurons with
0.5-10,,M PGE, activates adenylate cyclase and mimics the A kinase modulation of nicotinic AChRs (i.e.
PGE, increases the amplitude of nicotine-evoked macroscopic currents). Assays of single channel activity
with permeable activators of A kinase or with PGE, applied to the remainder of the cell reveals differential
modulation of the nicotine gated channel! subtypes. Consistent with the net effect on macroscopic current
amplitude, the opening probability (P,) of a predominant nAChR subtype (~ 25 pS) is enhanced by
exposure to 0.5 uM - 104M PGE, (or A Kinase activation). This increase in P, is unique to the 25 pS
channel subtype. Monitoring of the opening frequency of the 15, 35 and 50 pS channels, often within the
same patch, reveals decreased P, for nAChRs other than the 25 pS channel (Fig P-2).

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  

Current {pA)

 

 

REPORT OF PROGRESS PAGE 2 CTR 2783 / ROLE

 

50700295