projections of cholinergic fibers from MHN to IPN and the expression of nAChRs on IPN neurons). This
finding extends earlier work in in vivo preparations by Brown and colleagues** .

If MHN-IPN co-cultures are incubated with TTX (to block action potential activity and thereby permit
study of spontaneous synaptic transmission in isolation) and nanomolar concentrations of nicotine are
applied in the vicinity of MHN-IPN synapses, there is a marked facilitation of spontaneous release, without
change of the magnitude of the miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mepc's). Thus, nicotine
increases mepsc frequency by 4-7 fold without concomitant alteration in mepsc amplitude. This classic
experimental criteria for a presynaptic effector was further supported by our studies utilizing Ca imaging of
presynaptic neurites. Application of nicotine to presynaptic projections evokes a brisk rise in internal Ca.
This demonstrates that the receptors for nicotine are located on the presynaptic structures per se and,
further, provides a likely first step in the mechanism of nicotine-induced presynaptic facilitation. Indeed in
more recent studies, we have found that the activation of Ca influx through the presynaptic nicotine-gated
channels is both necessary and sufficient to support nicotine-induced synaptic facilitation: subsequent
activation of voltage-gated Ca channels is not required (Girod, McGehee and Role, 1996: in prep. ).

Perhaps most important is the demonstration that evoked glutamatergic synaptic transmission is also
potently regulated by nicotine. Stimulation of neurites from the MHN microexplant in the presence of
nanomolar concentrations of nicotine strongly potentiates evoked responses. Evoked EPSCs are
increased more than 2 fold and the number of failures in response to a constant stimulus is decreased by
nearly half. These findings affirm a potent interaction of nicotine with presynaptic receptors that are
permeable to Ca and intimately linked to the process of transmitter release (Fig P-3).

 

CONTROL NICOTINE RECOVERY

FIG P-3: Ca-imaging of nicotine effects on presynaptic neurites. Nicotine induces Ca entry via presynaptic nAChR channels
as indicated by the change in emission of the Ca sensitive dye. (scale < 1- ~80 1M). Nicotine increase [Cal,,, sufficient to
support the observed facilitation of synaptic transmission. ( see McGehee et al., 1995; APPENDIX)

 

Results of the experiments proposed to assess the nAChR subtype(s) targeted to presynaptic
terminals were quite surprising. It is well established that the predominant form of nAChRs in the CNS
includes the a4 and B2 -type subunits. These nAChRs have been localized at both pre and post synaptic
sites throughout the CNS and surely play a fundamental role in CNS nicotine actions. Having studied the
composition of the somatic MHN channels in some detail, we expected that related subtypes of nAChRs
would be targeted to the presynaptic terminals to mediate the observed presynaptic faciltation. We initally
approched the problem of dissecting the subunit composition of the presynaptic nAChRs armed with
antisense oligonucleotides to these more “traditional” neuronal nAChRs subunits. To our surprise we
found that, unlike the receptors expressed on MHN somata, the nAChRs that mediate presynaptic
facilitation and presynaptic influx of Ca were exquisitely sensitive to activation by nicotine and blocked by
aBgTx. Furthermore, antisense oligo-nucleotides to «7 and «8 (along with several 3 base mismatch
controls) identified the complex as including «7 subunits, Thus, deletion of «7 decreases the levels of
immunoreactive «7, blocks nicotine induced increases in presynaptic Ca, as measured using Ca imaging
techniques, inhibits nicotine-induced synaptic facilitation and completely removes the aBgTx-sensitive
component of nicotine-induced release. In sum the data are consistent with presynaptic nAChRs in MHN
being an «7 containing complex, although neither their low sensitivity to oBgTx or high apparent affinity
for nicotine is consistent with the profile of homemeric a7 nAChRs. The other components of these
presynaptic nAChRs remain to be determined. This work appeared as a Research Article in Science
(McGehee, et al., 1995; APPENDIX) and additional progress by Dr. Girod, for whom support is
requested in this competitive renewal, is in preparation for submission to Neuron.

REPORT OF PROGRESS PAGE 4 CTR 2783 / ROLE

50700297.