In addition to the low affinity (uM) PGE, receptors, we

 

 

 

 

0.0008 have obtained evidence for the expression of high affinity
Control (nM) PGE, receptors that also modulate the activity of at

. 0.0006 mAfer PG least some of the nicotine gated channel subtypes. The
5 o.o004 high affinity PGE, receptors are not linked to either PKA or
x PKC. Instead, activation of high affinity PGE, receptors
0.0002 elevates intracellular calcium which depresses P, of bath

the 25 and 50 pS nACHRS, The decrease in opening
probability requires Ca” influx from outside the cell. These
data support the notion that synaptic activity involving
nicotine-activated channels can be fine-tuned by subtype
specific up or down regulation of P, by PGE, . Thus, the ultimate effect on synaptic gain will depend on
local PG concentrations as well as the profile of nAChRs expressed.

Two other studies that underscore the importance of nicotine gated channel diversity have come to
fruition during this past award period and, in view of their partial support from CTR (equipment used in
these studies was purchased with CTR funds) will acknowledge CTR, when published. Both manuscripts
have already been submitted (to J. Physiol, (Lond.) and Anesthesiology, respectively.) The former
study examines the contribution of distinct nAChR subtypes to through-transmission at a model synapse.
The analysis predicts that differential expression of the 25 vs. 50 pS channel will substantively alter the
efficacy of transmission, a conclusion that is well supported by our findings that PGE, differentially
modulates these nAChR subtypes. Last, but not least, we have recently completed a study of the effects
of specific general anesthetics on neuronal nicotine gated channels - previously unexplored territory for
either anesthesiologists or “nicotine-clogists’. This study demonstrates that the predominant CNS type
nAChR - «42 - is potently inhibited by two general anesthetics whereas «7-type nAChRs are entirely
unaffected. These findings could be particularly important in light of the role of both of these receptors at
distinct pre and post synaptic sites within the CNS.

PROGRESS AIM 2: MODULATION OF SYNAPTIC TRANSMISSION BY NICOTINE

Publications: [1] McGehee. & Role. (1994) Effects of Nicotine on Biological Systems II, p. 119-126
[2] McGehee, et al., (1995) Science 269: 1692-1697 [3] Role & Berg, D.K. (1996) Neuron (in Press)
[4] McGehee & Role (1996) Curr.Opin.Neurobio.(in Press). Manuscripts: [5.] Girod et al. (in prep.)

The dearth of evidence for “true” nicotinic synapses in the CNS stands in striking contrast to the
widespread effects of nicotine on CNS function®. There are several regions - including the projection of
septal cholinergic neurons to MHN and MHN- interpeduncular nucleus (IPN ) synapses - that have all the
components required for nicotinic synapses (i.e. AChE, ChAT, ACh in presynaptic projections, soma-
dendritic nAChRs on the target neurons). Nevertheless, physiological studies of the synaptic transmission
at these sites reveals that ATP, glutamate or aspartate activated receptors -not nicotinic receptors-
mediate synaptic transmission.

This intriguing dichotomy underscores the possibility that an important site of nicotine action may be
at presynaptic receptors. Most studies of presynaptic nAChRs have utilized somewhat indirect or low
resolution techniques (such as autoradiography and studies of release from synaptosomes). These
studies, although suggestive, do not provide definitive proof that a primary effect of nicotine in the CNS
may be to modulate the evoked release of other neurotransmitters, rather than to act at “classic” nicotinic
synapses. The original proposal set as its second aim a test of this hypothesis by examining directly the
mechanism(s) by which nicotine might modulate CNS synaptic transmission. Despite the cut in funds
sustained by the original proposal | just could not resist pursuing the studies presented in preliminary form
in the original application. The lack of restraint may have been for the best since, | think, the work praved
the most interesting of all our studies of nicotine action in the CNS.

The central role of glutamatergic transmission in cognition, arousal, and appetitive behaviors, functions
thought to be altered by nicotine, helped to focus our studies on a glutamatergic synapse. We confirmed
our preliminary studies demonstrating that synaptic transmission at the projections of MHN within the IPN
is mediated by activation of NMDA and non NMDA-type glutamate receptors (despite coincident

15pS_-25pS_—-35pS

REPORT OF PROGRESS PAGE 3 CTR 2783 / ROLE

50700296