CTR PROGRESS REPORT
(for Competing Renewal Application)

Grant number__2783 Progress Period from 7/93_s to: 5/96
Name of Investigator: Dr. Lorna W. Role
Title of Original Grant: Modulation of nicotine-receptor channels

Abstract of the Specific Aims as stated in the original application:

Aim 1: Modulation of post synaptic nicotine-activated channels subtypes.

Aim 1 of the original application propased to asess the differences amongst native neuronal nAChR
subtypes with respect to which subtypes are subject to modulation and which nAChR @ subunits are
required for modulation. We proposed to examine the single channel properties and modulation of
nAChRs on primary neurons and then compare the behaviour of native nAChRs with those expressed by
"subunit deleted" neurons (i.e. neurons treated with subunit-specific antisense oligonucleotides). This
analysis was to be complemented by studies of the modulation of nicotine activated channels made up of
particular « and B nAChR subunit cDNAs, expressed in Xenopus oocytes.

i : Role of presynaptic nicotine receptors in th: tion of synaptic

Experiments in Aim 2 were to examine the role of presynaptic nicotine receptor channels in the
modulation of synaptic function. Our preliminary experiments suggested that nicotine might augment the
release of fast excitiatory transmitters. We proposed that different subtypes of nAChRs might mediate
nicotine-induced synaptic facilitation, perhaps dependent on the targetting of specific subtypes to terminal
fields receiving co-incident cholinergic input. Aim 2 experiments proposed to extend our preliminary
findings by examination of both the molecular mechanism(s) and nicotine receptor subtypes responsible
for synaptic modulation in the CNS.

List all publications (author, title and journal) resulting from the current CTR award that contain

a printed acknowledgment of CTR support,

For manuscripts, the designation "in press" means you have a preprint: otherwise use “accepted for

publication by ...", "submitted for publication to..." or "in preparation."

Do not list publications that do not acknowledge CTR support.

1. *Valenta, D.C.C. ,Downing, J.E., and Role, L.W. (1993) Peptide modulation of acetylcholine
receptor desensitization controlling transmitter release from sympathetic neurons jin vitro. J.
Neurophysiol. 69:928-942

2. *Brussaard, A. B., X. Yang, Doyle, J., Huck S.E. and Role, L.W. (1994) Developmental regulation
of multiple AChR channel subtypes in embryonic chick habenula neurons: contributions of both the
a2 and a4 subunit genes. Pflugers Archiv./ Eur J. Physiol. 429: 27-43

3. McGehee, D. and Role, L. (1994) Presynaptic nicotine-gated channels potentiate transmission at
ACh and glutamate mediated synapses in Effects of Nicotine on Biological Systems II, Eds.:
Clarke, P. B., Quik, M., Adlkofer, F., Thurau, K. Birkhauser Press p119-126

4. “McGehee, D. and Role, L W. (1995) Physiological diversity of nicotinic AChR channels in vertebrate
neurons. Annual Review of Physiology, 57:521-546

5. *McGehee, D., Heath, M., Devay, P., Gelber, S. and L.W. Role (1995) Nicotine enhancement of
fast excitatory synaptic transmission in CNS by presynaptic receptors Science 269: 1692-1697

6. *Ramirez-Latorre, J., Qu, X., Perrin-Dupeaux, F. and Karlin, A. and L.W. Role (1996) Participation of
the a5 subunit i in neuronal nicotinic AChR channels Nature 380:347-351

 

1. Report of Progress (no more than four (4) pages, please.)
Staple separately. Do not staple this CTR Progress Report to the Application Form.

(please see attached)
2. Abstract of CTR Progress Report (one (1) page only.)
Include your Name, Grant number and the Title of your project.
Do not staple this Abstract of CTR Progress Report to the Application Form or to the Report of Progress.

50700292