oy - - oe CP
Mabrack for ETS~Wympraiuan va Tolfe >)

PSYCHOPHYSIOLOGICAL RESPONSE TO ENVIRONMENTAL TOBACCO SMOKE IN AN EXPERIMENTAL

SOCIAL SETTING

GERHARD WINNEKE, MANFRED NEUF, ANNA ROSCOVANU, HANS-
WERNER SCHLIKOTER

Medizinisches Institut ftir Umwelthygiene an der Univer-
sitit Dusseldorf, Abt. fiir Psychophysiologie

D-4000 Diisseldorf, Fed.Rep. of Germany

Results from a pilot study (I) as well as preliminary findings from an exten—
ded study (II) will be presented, in which either non-smoking students (I) or
non-smoking adults from the general population (II) were exposed to ETS produced
by an active smoker in a social, experimentally controlled setting.

Results from study I are based on 64 Ss of both sexes exposed to ETS corres
ponding to either 0, 2.5, 5, and 15 ppm dcO. Duration of exposure was 60 minutes
and CO was continuously monitored by IR-spectroscopy. Objective (eye blinks, la-
crymal flow, blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration) as well as subjective
measures based on questionnaire items were taken at 20' intervals. COHb was mea-
sured before and after ETS-exposure. Significant effects of exposure were found
for blinks, lacrymal flow, COHb, as well as for most of the questionnaire—based
information. With the exception of the questionnaire-variables, exhibiting dose-
response-relationship, the majority of dependent variables showed clear threshold
characteristics: The 15 ppm-condition only was significantly different from the
control level. From this finding the tentative conclusion is drawn for a no-ad-
verse effect-level for ETS to be located between 5 and 15 ppm, rather than below
5 ppm. (WINNEKE et al., 1984).

In order to substantiate this conclusion and to gain information about the
generalizability of the annoyance-response a second extended study (II) was con-
Gucted, in which the psychophysiological effects of ETS—exposure will be compared
to those of noise- and odour-exposure; this study is not yet completed. The Ss of
this study were selected from the general population living in noise- and odor-
problem-areas of the city of Diisseldorf. Based on a social survey covering 2300
individuals only non-smokers from extreme groups with high or low annoyance
characteristics, respectively, were asked to participate in the experimental part
of the study. These were exposed in a social setting to ETS corresponding to aco
of 0, 5 and 10 ppm. Apart from few technical modifications the set of outccme-
measures as well as the basic experimental structure was identical to that of the
pilot study (I). Results based on the first set of 72 Ss will be presented and
discussed.

REFERENCES

Winneke,G., K.Plischke, A.Roscovanu, and H.-W.Schlipkéter: Patterns and Determi-
nants of Reaction to Tobacco Smoke in an Experimental Exposure Setting
In: Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Idoor Air Quali-
ty and Climate, vol.2, 351-356 (1984)

6ene z£b90S