Lr TOBACCO COMPANY

MEMORANDUM

November 3, 1993

TO: L. H. Gains
FROM: M. E. Viso

SUBJECT: Experimentation Using Charcoal to Remove Nitrogen
Oxides from Cigarette Smoke (PROJECT B 451, CMP)

In an earlier memorandum, I outlined work using charcoal impreg-
nated with 1,3-butadiene as a filter additive to reduce nitrogen
oxide (NOx) delivery in mainstream smoke (1). This experimen-
tation indicated that cigarettes containing either untreated
charcoal or butadiene impregnated charcoai had lower NOx delivery
than cigarettes containing no charcoal. The question arose as to
whether NOx delivery could be reduced using untreated charcoal
and whether NOx delivery was related to the amount of untreated
charcoal used.

Experimentation has been carried out to address these issues.
The results from this experimentation seem to contradict the
previously obtained data that NOx delivery can be reduced using
charcoal filters. No reduction in NOx delivery was seen using
untreated charcoal. Additionally, no relationship was seen
between the amount of untreated charcoal used and the NOx deliv-

ery.

Two possible sources of this contradictory data include variabil-
ity of the method used to assay NOx delivery or inhomogeneity in
the nitrate content of the tobacco in the experimental ciga-
rettes. Further experimentation will be performed to help
Clarify the results.

EXPERIMENTAL

A carton of 1188-93 cigarettes was removed from the freezer and
allowed to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. The cigaret-
tes were then weight selected and those weighing from 1.06 to
1.09 grams were retained. Calgon type PCB 12 X 30 mesh charcoal
was incorporated into the cigarettes. The charcoal was added by
removing the outer filter portion, placing the charcoal in the
cavity, and reinserting the outer filter portion. Any part of
the filter that extended beyond the tipping paper was cut off.
fhe amounts of charcoal incorporated into the filters were 50,
90, 240, and 180 milligrams. Controls containing no charcoal
were prepared by removing the outer filter portion in each
cigarette and then reinserting it.

GLSTESES

292802

9661

iyyhin