THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS
M. D. ANDERSON HOSPITAL AND TUMOR INSTITUTE

Texas Medica! Center Houston, Texas 77025

June 19, 1970

 

Mr. W. T. Hoyt

Executive Director

Council for Tobacco Research
110 East 59th Street

New York, New York 10022

Dear Tom:
Thank you very much for your stand by consultation fee,

Enclosed are the corrected graphs for you and Dr. Little. You may use
them any way you like. I listed the components of total respiratory so
it would be clear that asthma, bronchitis, tuberculosis and respiratory
cancer were included as well as emphysema and bronchitis, and that the
separate rates are included in the total rates. The rates for the last
two conditions are too small to consider separately.

This makes quite a case for improved classification, After going down
with the introduction of antibiotics, influenza and pneumonia are now
going the same route as reported respiratory cancer mortality. The so
called Hong Kong flu in 1968, gave that death rate another jump, so it
is on the general ascendant course, |

My work on the longer document continues. I have all the mortality data
on hand and will make a report with Bill Alban in the next two or three
weeks,

I have my other file of cases completely processed for Negroes, but not
quite complete for Latins and Anglos. That is, they are coded and punched,
but need to be checked for duplicates, When I have the printout of the
40,000 plus cases in Houston, and compare them with the 200, 000 plus
deaths from all causes, I will first check the 162, 163 classifications and
see what the facts were, I have been asked to put this article in the Inter-
national Journal of Cancer. The awareness that 23 years of total popula-
tion base cancer cases in Houston are available and may be checked against
total deaths from all causes in Houston has caused a great deal of anticipa-
tion. At the Tenth International Cancer Congress in Houston, I had a steady
stream of visitors in Epidemiology; the only meetings I was able to attend

‘

 

CTR SP-FILES OOLGi4