~ ON DO fF WwW NY =

Yow YM DNYRYNYNNRN V
=SOF ONY SHKRESOHRRSSSNVTAEESRASN

PRIORITY

Report B1041 / P 0500/3213 97/11/12 Page 7

10 female rats per group) and 1 sham exposure group (10 male and 10 female rats), plus
4satellite groups (10male and 10female rats per satellite group) for postinhalation
investigation (Table 1). The age of the rats at the start of the inhalation period was 6 weeks.
The BW of the male rats at that time was 192 g (RSD: 3.4 %), that of the female rats was 151 g
(RSD: 4.0 %). The acclimatization period was 7 d.

The histopathological examination of the respiratory tract as well as the gross pathology of

 

5 rats per sex performed 1 d after arrival showed no findings.

The results of the serological screening for the presence of antibodies to 11 viruses, 3 bacteria,
and 1 protozoon showed seroconversion to pe Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis (GDVIN
virus in & out of 18 rats after the inhalation period. However, the significance of this virus for
rats is not known and no lesions have been reported. At the end of the study, 1 rat was found to
be seropositive for the cilia-associated respiratory (CAR) bacillus. This finding ras—te be

confirmed by histopathological examinatio Cou teat

Good hygienic conditions within the animal housing and exposure rooms were ‘maintained as
evidenced by the results of bacteriological examinations of the rat diet, drinking water, and

laboratory air and surfaces.

The rats were head-only exposed to the test atmospheres (Table 1) to ensure minimal changes
of test substance composition and maximum reproducibility of test substance uptake by
inhalation, ie., to minimize test substance deposition on the fur that could be absorbed

dermally or ingested during grooming.

Exposure chambers type IC 88 (glass, stainless steel, and brass; volume: approximately 28 1),
equipped with glass exposure tubes (Figure 2 and

Figure 1), were used. The rats were individually exposed in glass tubes matching the size of
the rats. The positions of the rats of respective groups within the exposure chamber were
changed daily according to an insertion schedule. Sham-exposed rats were exposed to filtered,

conditioned fresh air, the exposure conditions being the same as those for the VIRGO smoke-

 

| -P92069202