PROJECT NUMBER: 2525
PROJECT TITLE: Paper and Tobacco Research

PROJECT LEADER
PERIOD COVERED

G. H. Bokelman
November, 1989

I.. SIDESTREAM REDUCEE ON (S. Baldwin, S. Tafur, G. Bokelman, J. Kang,
G. Newell, P. Suiter and B. Rogers)
A. - Obtectives: (1) Prepare and evaluate, for reduction in sidestream

smoke, paper handsheets that contain additives and/or inorganic
fillers with different physical and chemical properties and (2)
evaluate machine-made cigarettes containing cigarette papers
produced at the University of Maine or by Kimberly-Clark.

Results: An U.S. patent application was filed which, among other
claims, covered the use of KH,PO, on high basis weight cigarette

papers.

Sherry Baldwin and Gordon Bokelman visited Dr. Helena Chum, an
expert on cellulose and biomass pyrolysis, at the Solar Energy
Research Institute (SERI) in Golden, Colorado. Prior to the visit
two samples, representing high basis weight cigarette paper with
and without KH,PO, additive, had been submitted for preliminary
analysis on the molecular beam mass spectrometer at SERI. The
results indicated distinctive differences between the samples.
This information may be useful in understanding how paper
additives. affect subjective characteristics, as well as reduce
sidestream. The speed and ease with which real-time analysis of
pyrolysis products can be achieved in the SERI laboratory is most
impressive. A memo was prepared which gives more details on this
trip and also. includes a preliminary proposal for research to be
conducted at. SERI by Dr.. Chum’s group (1).

Three high basis weight papers made at the U. of Maine and sized
with different levels of KH,PO, were used to prepare handmade
cigarettes for sidestream analyses. Optimal sidestream reduction
was clearly a function of paper porosity. These models were
designed to provide assistance for commercial development of a low
sidestream paper by Kimberly-Clark.

The examination of a number of different chemical sizings on
medium and high basis weight papers was continued. A soluble form
of “ferric” pyrophosphate (probably mixed ferric and ferrous) has
been, shown to be quite effective for reducing sidestream at
relatively low levels (~3%). Problems with this sizing include a
slight yellow color which is imparted to the paper and the
production of a reddish ash. Further examination of other iron
salts (mostly ferrous) is planned as well as investigation of the
potential for double-wrapping to hide the problems with “ferric”
pyrophosphate. Reduction of sidestream was also shown with
tetrapotassium pyrophosphate, but at higher levels (7-8%) than the
“ferric” form. High levels of MAP and DAP (13-17%) produced no
significant sidestream reduction and gave very long static burn
times. A combination of KH,citrate and KH,PO, gave very good
sidestream reduction with a faster static burn time than KH,PO,

62

 

vEeTEoe9z07e