e
z
.
.
rr
e

aie

Y
=
&
zr.
t
>

Phase I Determination of NEW CIGARETTE Smoke Chemistry:

Although no single compound or chemical class has been shown to
be associated with the alleged biological activity of cigarette
smoke, various chemicals and classes of chemicals have been
claimed to play a role. Since the number of alleged toxic
constituents of cigarette smoke is large, it is necessary to
develop a list of chemicals occurring in tobacco smoke that are
representative of those alleged to possess biological activity in
smoke. This list of target compounds is the basis for specific
quantitative analysis.

The target list is predominantly based upon two Surgeon General’s
Reports (1,2) and the recent International Agency For Research on
Cancer monograph concerning tobacco smoking (3), although other
sources were also consulted. This target list is not meant to
imply agreement with the various sources, but meant only to be
representative of chemicals alleged to have biological activity
in cigarette smoke. Because of the large number of chemicals and
classes listed in such publications, it is not possible to
quantitate each specific chemical. For example, the IARC mono-
graph on tobacco smoking lists one hundred polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons and their alkyl derivatives that have been detected
in tobacco smoke. Quantitative determination of each of these
chemicals, although possible, is not practical considering that
the polycyclics are only one chemical class out of many that may
occur in cigarette smoke and a complete quantitative analysis of
all PAH’s has never been done with a smoke product.

To overcome the problem of the large number of individual chemi-
cals that may occur in a single class of compounds, the concept
of "sentinel" or "tracking" compounds has been developed. This
concept is based upon the hypothesis that specific classes of
compounds in smoke may have a similar origin. Although it is
obvious that there are exceptions to the hypothesis, there are
data indicating that the hypothesis may, in part, be correct.
Therefore, tracking compounds have been chosen which may be
representative of an entire class. For example, benzo(a)pyrene
and benzo(a)anthracene were chosen as the tracking compounds for
the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. These two compounds have
been chosen based upon 1) their biological activity in different
test systems, 2) their alleged biological activity in smoke from
a number of sources (i.e. coal and wood fires, diesel exhaust,
tobacco smoke, etc.), 3) methodology exists for the quantitative
determination of these compounds in a smoke matrix, 4) quanti-
tative data exist on the levels of these two compounds in ciga-
rette smoke. This type of logic was utilized in choosing track-
ing compounds for other chemical classes.

In certain cases, chemicals will be added to the target compound
list for other reasons. Examples include both aluminum and
silicon. These have been added because of their multiple sources
in the NEW CIGARETTE and they can be used to monitor the

 

EL9S 9LOOS