it

Se

NEW YORK POST
New York, New York
April 28, 1964

   

“Stop smoking in only three days. No will
power or self control necessary, Proved effective
beyond a question in 100 per cent of smokers
tested.

“Don't confuse this offer with plans, systems,
books, methods, ete., for these remedies require
that you have enough: self-control. to stop smok-
ing.”

All you do, the ad says, fs take one “Formula
X22" pill following each meal. After only: three
days, your nervous system is “fooled” into be-
Heving you are smoking your favorite. cigaret,
cigar or pipe.

This sort of promotion has been mushrooming
all over the U. S. since the Surgeon. General's re-
port on smoking and cancer was released early in
1964. Since. January, Better Business Bureaus
throughout the ‘country have been flooded with
inquiries about dozens of “new” anti-smoking pills
and lozenges, mouthwashes and chewing gums,
stop-smoking plans and programs costing up to
$40 and more for “the cure.”

Fanciful claims by manufacturers. for their
products and programs include “miracle ingredi-
ents” supposed to be “99 per cent effective’ and
to “force you to quit whether you want to or not.”
New commercial “tobacco guidance centers” with
lofty-sounding names have sprung up from coast
to coast—only a few of. them under competent
medical supervision,

* * *

Millions of us are paying millions of dollars
for products we hope will rid us painlessly of the
cigaret habit.

We are gulping sugar pills and concoctions of
ordinary spice such as ginger, Heorice, clove, cori-
ander—as well as pharmaceutical preparations—
to stamp out the cigaret craving.

We are. taking up fake cigarets—dubbed
“smokes” or “adult pacifiers’ which contain
such non-nicotinie ingredients as metho} srystals,

CONSUMER SWINDLES—vit

Page 68.

 

7 Stop-Smoking Gimmicks
CM $Y LY iA PORTER

cabbage, lettuce or just flavored cigaret paper—
to keep our nervous hands busy and permit us to
“smoke without fear.”

We are falling for suggestive “stop smoking”
phonograph records, recently the subject. of in-
vestigation by the U.S. Post Office,

: We are enrolling in a wide variety of so-called
“positive thinking” programs, even hypnosis, to
spirit us away fromi tobacco. We are devouring
no-smoke tablets. and how-to-stop-smoking pam-
phlets.

% x *

Just what is the value of these pills and
motions? What can and can't they do? From
the National Better Business Bureau’s Dr. Irving
Ladimer, here are a few straight answers:

Despite the welter of new labels, there are no
really “pew” substances on the market te help
us stop smoking. Old ones simply have heen
dressed up or combined to appear new,

The three standard types of anti-smoking
medications now available are the nicotine sub-
stitute (lobeline sulfate), which alleviates cigaret
craving; substances which make smoking taste
unpleasant (silver nitrate), and local anesthetics
(benzocaine) which numb the mouth and reduce
desire for.the puffing part of the smoking ritual.

Many- of these products do, in fact, help you .

quit smoking temporarily. But none does the job
permanently. None works without a generous
dose of will power on your part. Most are harm
less, but a few cases of nausea, stomach -pain and
loss of appetitite have been reported as. side-
effects.

In conclusion, the American Medical Assn. |

states: “It is possible that some individuals amen:
able to psychological suggestion would find anti-
tobacco preparations to be an ald. However, ex-
cessive smoking is a psychiatric problem and
must be treated as such if the individual is unable
to rid Eimself of the nabit voluntarily.”

Tomorrow: Health Quackery.

2

Evpszoszo