Blood Transfusion Service and Pathology Departments. respectively, of the
Massachusetts General Hospital, Profilin was purified from human piatetets
using a polyproline affinity column as described (Lind et al... 1987), with
a4 M urea sinse and 7 M urea elution step gradient. Antibodies against

Profilin were raised in rabbits injected every 3-4 wk st multiple sites with
§ ml of an emulsion of 0.25 mg/ml profilin in normal satine, using the RIBI
adjuvant system (RIB! Immunochemical Research. Inc.. Hamilton, MT).
Antibody production was monitored by ELISA assay and the specificity of
antibodies validated on immunodidts acording to the method of Towbin et
al. 1979). Human white blood cell and platetet extracts were prepared by
bysis with 1% Triton X-100 in the presence of 2 mM diisopropylfiuorophos-
phate, ang were separated by electrophoresis on 1S% Polyacrylamide slab
gels (Laemmli. 1970) before electrophoretic transfer to immobiton paper
(Millipore Continental Water Systems, Bedford. MA).

Anti-profilin IgG was affinity purified. $ mg of purified human piatetet
Profilin was conjugated to 3 m! CNBr-activated Sepharose beads (Pharma-
cia Fine Chemicals St. Louis. MO). IgG was Precipitated from rabbit serum
with 45 % saturated ammonium sulfate, the precipitate collected by centrifu-
gation at 10,000 g for (0 min a1 4°C_ and subsequently dissolved in and dia-
lyzed extensively against PBS, pH 7.4. The dialytate was passed through
the profilin-Sepharose column two times, the column was washed with 10
vol PBS, and bound IgG dissociated with 0.05 M glycine-HC!. pH 2.3, fol-
lowed immediately by neutralization with 0.5 M sodium phosphate buffer,
PH 7.7, and dialysis against PBS, pH 7.4.

Preparation of Cells

Platelets. Thin sections were cut from platelets embedded in Lowicry!
K4M. The preparation of these blocks has been described by ux previously
(Honwig et al. 1989). Bricfly. platelets were freshly prepared from an-
ticoagutated blood and used immediately afier a 60-min 37°C incubstion
to insure a resting state. Some cells were fined with 1% gluuraldehyde and
embedded while the rest of the cells were activated by the addition of } U
of thrombin per milliliter for times of 15, 30, and 300 3. 90% of the cells
treated with thrombin for 1S s were activated as yudged by the formation
of pseudopodia. Gold particles were quantitaied only in sctivated cells dis-
playing pseudopodia or filapodia on their surfaces. Activation was termi-
nated by the immediate fixation of the cells with 1% gluuraidchyde in 10
mM sodium phosphate buffer. pH 70...

Human Polymorphonuciear Leukocytes. Normal human blood from
SHH and DIK was collected into the anticoagulant acid-citrate-dextrose (8
vol blood/Z vol). The citrated blood was mixed with 0.5 vol of 4% dextean
and allowed to sit for 30 min at room temperature. The buffy coat was re-
moved, added to 3 vol of 0.11 AA ammonium chloride to lyse contaminating
red blood cells, and centrifuged at 280 g for 10 min. The WBC peliet
(60-70% polymorphonuciear leukocytes} was resuspended in0.15 M NaCl,
washed by ceniréfugation and cesuspended to 1% (vol/vol) in Krebs-Ringer
phosphate buffer (KRP) without added catcrum. PH 7.4. Cells used in the
electron microscope were fixed for 10 min in )% glutaraldehyde in 10 mM
phosphate buffer. pH 7.4. and embedded in Lowicryl K4M.

Preparation of Cell Sections for the
Electron Microscope

Ledeling of Sections with Rabbis Anti-Profilin IgG and &-nm Gold Porti-
eles Coated with Goat Anti-Rabbit égG. Gold panictes, 8 nm in diameter,
were prepared with tannic acid (Slot and Geure, 1985) and coated with
affinity-purified goat anti-rabbit igG tha: had been absorbed with human
igG Polyctonal rabbit affinity-pursfied ants-human Plaiciet profilin IgG was
used in all immunohistochemical studies.

To label the cel? sections with gold. cul sections were placed on the sur-
face of 10-p1 drops of 10 pgimt of anti-profilin IgG sm PBS conuining 1%
BSA, pH 8.2. (PBS-BSA) and incubated for |b at 23°C. Sections were
washed thrice by transferting them to drops of PBSJBSA for 5 mn each.
They were then transferred w 10-z! drops of PBS-BSA conuining anti-
sabbit IgG-coated gold. After the incubation with tgG-gold. the sections
were washed twice in PBS, thrice in duulled water. and stained with 2%
urany! acetate for 7 min followed by lead citrate for | mun. Sections were
viewed and photographed in a SEOL 1200-EX electron Muctoscope al an
accelerating voluge of 80 KV.

Preparation of Metal Replicas of Membrane Fragments

Adherence and Cleavage of Cells. Drops of a 1% suspension of human
polymorphonucicar leukocytes in KRP were placed on glass coverslips § mm

The Journal of Cell Biology. Volurne 109, 1989

PUBLICATIONS

in diameter for 3 min. Nonadherent cells were washed off with KRP and
the coverslips containing adherent cells were incubated for an additional 5
min m 37°C. The bathing KRP solution was replaced with 60 mM Pipes,
25 mM Hepes, 10 mM EGTA, 2 mM MgCl; and 2 oM phallacidin, pH
6.9 (PHEM buficr of Schliva ¢1 al., 1981) and the caposed membrane sur-
face of cells cleaved from their substrate-adherent basal surface by adhering
a polylysine-coated coverslip to their apical surface and ternoving it. Cover-
slips containing membrane fragments (unrooted cells) and assoc sted cyto-
skeletal elernents were fixed with 1% glutaraldehyde-PHEM for 10 min.
washed in PHEM buffer for 10 min. washed for 2 min in PBS conuining
§ mg/m! of sodium borohydride, and then placed in PBS/BSA for 10 min

in preparation for gold labeling.
Labeling of Celt Frogments with Rabbis Anti-Profilin IgG end 8am
Gold Particles Coated with Goat Anti-Rabbit IgG. Coverslips containing
cell fragments were covered with 25 yu! of 80 ng/ml of rabbit anti-profitin
IgG in PBS/BSA buffer and incubated for 2h ot 37°C, They were then
washed with three changes of PBS/BSA solution and covered with 25 jl of
ribbit anti-goat IgG-cuated gold at a t:10 dilution of the stock and incubated
for tb at 37°C. Undound gold was semoved using five wash cycles of
FBS/BSA followed by three washes of PBS for $ min each. Gold labeled
membranes were then fixed for 10 min at room temperature with 1%
glutaraldehyde in 10 mM sodium phosphate buffer. pH 70. :
Rapid-Freezing ond Freeze-Drying. Coversiips containing unroofed
cells were washed with three changes of distilled water. They were then
Placed on the specimen mount of the rapid-freezing apparatus (Med-Vac.
Inc, St. Louis, MO) and frozen by slamming them onto a liquid belium-
cooled copper bicck (Hartwig and Shevtin, 1986). Freezing tabs contzining
the frazen coverslips were transferred to @ liquid nitrogen-cooled stage of
a Cressington CFE-50 freeze fracture apparatus, the stage
faised to —80°C for 4$ min. and then rotary coated with platinum at 25°
and carbon at 90°. Replicas were separated from the coverslip with 25%
hydrofluoric acid. placed in bleach for 30 min, washed imo distilied water,
and then picked up on the surface of carbon-formvar—coated copper grids.
Grids were made hydrophilic before use by ghow discharge. Replicas were
Photographed at + 10° of tilt at 100 KV in a JEOL 1200-EX electron mucro-

scope. ,

Quantitation of Gold Labei on Cell Sections. The distribution of gold
Particles was quantiuted in different Fegions of plaicleis and polymaor-
Phonuclear leukocytes. Gold Isbe! generafly wook the form of small ag-
Bregaies composed of an average of four to eight particles (edie 1), although
aS many as 40 individual panicles could be found occasionally in ag-
Bregatcs. The total number of gold panicles, the number of gold in ag-
gregates, and the total number of gold aggregates were quarsitated. All god
particles and particle aggregates within a definedt zone of a cell were coumed
and the area of the zone determined by tracing its boundaries on the surface
of a digitizing pad. Areas. cowl particles, and panicles per micrometer
Squared of cytoplasm, as well as the number of gold particle aggregaies as-
sociated with a length of membrane (per micrometer) were determined as
previously described (Hartwig et al.. 1989; Harxwig and Shevlin, 1988) and
are capressed as mean + the standard error of the mean per cell. Date
means were Compared using a two-tailed. unpaired ¢ test.

Toul gold parucies and gold particle agg tes lying in dhree differen:
intracellular zones of platelets were : <a) <I0 nm of the plasma
membrane: (b) cytoplasmic. excluding all particles determined to be plasms
OF intracellular organelle membrane associated: (¢) residing on internal cell
membranes such as intracellular dense granules, mitochondna. and the
Platelet canaticuler system. Tota! gold label in each of these
was determined and data expressed as percent of tou! gold labe} in a cell
section. The percent of gold label at the membrane of polymorphonucicar
teukocytes was also determined for Comparssom to membrane labeling in
platelets.

Results

Specificity of kubbit Anti-Human Profilin Antibodies

Fig. 1 shows an immunoblot demonstrating the specificity of
affinity-purified rabbit anti-profitin Ig for human profilin.
Shown in lanes 7-3 is a Coomassie blue-stained 15% SDS
polyacrylamide gel of purified human platelet profilin, and
extracts of detergent-solubitized human white blood cells,
and human platelets, respectively. Lanes 4-6 show the corre-
Sponding immunobtot using the anti-profilin igG, of an iden-

1872

037024