/
. ¢
o *: ° ”
» * ¢ ad
~~ fo
a .
. 8 o .& .
« e* * -
| 2@
so a

 

Figure 3. Representative electron micrograph showing the compteie
lack of gold Inbeling in platelets treated with thrombin for {5 s.
fixed (same as in Fig. 2 6) and incubated with 10 gg/ml of preim-
mune rabbit IgG and 8-nm colloidal gold particles coated with goat
anti-rabbit IgG. Rar, 0.5 gen.

whereas that associated with intracellular granules and the
membranes comprising the platelet canalicular system was
unchanged (17.7? + 1.8 and 24.8 + 2.1% vs. 168 + 1.4 and
226 + 4.1% int resting cells, respectively) (Fig. 2 & and Ta-
bie I). Conversely, anti-profilin gold particle aggregates in
cytoplasm diminished with cell activation from 63.6 + 4.1%
at rest to 50.0 + 2.1% after thrombin treatment. Activated
platelets had 2.8 + 0.1 (2 = 24 platelets) gold aggregates per
micrometer membrane U5 s after treatment with thrombin.

These data indicate that profilin in the cytoptasm of the rest-
ing cell rapidly moved to the plasma membrane in response
to activation. After longer treatment with thrombin, the per-
cent association of profilin with the membrane was found to
decrease by comparison with 15 s of activation. but was still
elevated relative to resting cells (Fig. 2 ¢ and d, Table I). A
corresponding return of gold label to cytoplasmic locations
was apparent in the 30-s and 5-min postthrombin treated
platelets. When preimmune 1gG was substituted for the anti-
profilin IgG, there was a complete lack of gold labeling
bound to the cell sections (Fig. 3).

Distribution of Profilin in Human

Polymorphonuctear Leukocytes

The above results indicated that profilin was binding to plate-
tet plasma membrancs. We next examined the distribution of
Profilin in human polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Lenko-
cytes were used both to afforda second cell type for examina-

Hartwig et al. Reversible Associanca of Proflin with Membrane

PUBLICATIONS

tion, and because it is possible to mechanically unroof them,
permitting a three-dimensional assessnrent of profitin’s mem-
brane interaction in rapidly frozen, freeze-dried cells.
Polymorphonuclear leukocytes labeled ‘densely with the
anti-profilin IgG and gold particles. As was found in plate-

- lets, anti-profilin label occurred in aggregates composed of

many individual gold particles (Fig. 4), and a sizeable por-
tion of the label was associated with cellular membranes,
both plasma and intracellular, including nuclear membrane
(see Fig. 4 b). 1.9 + O1 (mean + SEM, n = 14 leukocytes}
gold particle aggregates were bound per micrometer of
plasma membrane in leukocytes, similar to that found in un-
activated platelet plasma membrane (2:7 + 0.1). We estimate
that the plasma membrane-associated label represents -6.5%
of the total anti-profilin Staining in these cells.’ Little
anti-profilin staining was observed in the nucleus of leuko-

cytes.

Anti-Profilin Gold Particles Bind to the Cytoplasmic
Side of the Plasma Membrane

To visuuiize more directly the interaction of profilin with the
membrane, unroofed polymorphonuclear leukocytes were
incubated with the anti-profilin IgG and anti-rabbit IgG-
coated gold conjugate. As shown in Fig. 5, the cytoplasmic
side of the adherent cell membrane is exposed by the unroof-
ing procedure and this membrane surface is diffusely deco-
rated with the gold label. Label occurred predominantly as
single gold particles, cach lying directly on the membrane,
although individual particles tended to form loose patches
consisting of three to six particles and covering “100 nm?
of membrane area. Gold particles (Fig. 5, white arrows) were
not associated with the sides or ends of membrane-attached
filaments or with regions of membrane decorated with clath-
rin-coated pits. No labeling of the external side of the plasma
menbrane was observed. Fhe gold tabel, therefore, repre-
sents binding of anti-rabbit IgG-coated gold conjugate to
anti-profilin IgG. which is recognizing either free profilin or
profilin-actin complex bound to the plasma membrane.

Discussion

Profilin is an abundant (30-40 pM in platelets) actin mono-
mer sequestering protein which has been found ubiquitously
in mammalian cells (Blikstad et a!.. 1980; Carlsson et al.,
1976; Kwiatkowski and Bruns, 1988). Based upon in vitro
studies of its interaction with PIP, in micelles and mixed
vesicles (Lassing and Lindberg. 1985, 1988; Goldschmidt-
Ctermont, P., J. Baldassare, and T. Pollard, manuscript sub-
mitted for publication). it has been proposed that intracellu-
lar PIP; regulates the profilin-actin bond in a physiologi-
cally important manner. Here, we provide the first studies of
the immunolocatization of profilin in mammalian cells, and
are able to demonstrate directly that profilin is found in close
association with both the internal leaftet of the plasma mem-
brane and external surfaces of intracellular membranes in
human platelets and leukocytes. As profilin is known to bind
with high affinity only two actin monomers and phosphoinosi-
tides, the observed membrane localization is likely to reflect
its direct binding to PIP and PIP, inside the cell.

2. This catculation assumes that polymorphonucicar leukocytes have 10 am
diameters.

1575

037027