To:
From:

Subject:

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. '
INTER - OFFICE corr gO GkNeel WED

100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y, 10017

OCT ig 1972
Date: October 12, 1972

J. GRANVILLE

HTI Test Of Two Virginia Slims Packages: Box Vs. Current Soft Pack
(Project No. 8718/8719)

y\

Dr. R. B. Seligman

Marketing Research Department

The purpose of this test was to determine the degree of consumer interest
in a box version of Virginia Slims relative to the current soft pack. To
this end five packs each of experimental Virginia Slims Box and produc-
tion Virginia Slims Soft Pack were mailed to 325 women (125 were Virginia
Slims smokers, and 200 were smokers of "other'' 100mm non-menthol filters).
About two weeks after receiving their cigarettes, each woman was contacted
via telephone and interviewed with regard to her: 1) overall preference,
2} package preference, and 3) whether or not she noted any differences
between the cigarettes themselves.

Tt should be kept in mind that the Virginia Slims cigarettes used in both
packages were identical with regard to all qualitative characteristics
except overall cigarette length (the cigarettes in the experimental box
were about 2mm shorter).

SUMMARY /DISCUSSION

Overall preference was about equal between the Virginia Slims

in the soft pack and those in the box (49/51 for Virginia Slims
smokers and 54/46 for smokers of "other'’ 100mm non-menthols).

The reasons for overall preference were based mainly on perceived

differences between the cigarettes rather than package differences.
The majority of women who gave a packaging reason for their over~
all choice. voted in favor of the box.

|
i
When questioned directly as to their preferences between the |
packages, the women indicated that the box was preferred over
the soft pack (70/30 by Virginia Slims smokers and 61/39 by
cross-section smokers). It was also found that each type of
package possessed its own, unique attributes:
Box: "Cigarettes didn't crush/Box protected them,'' "No logse
tobacco/Neat/Not Messy "' "Cigarettes didn't fall out,"
‘Reeps cigarettes fresh/moist/not dry."
Soft Pack: "Fits better into pocket or purse, ' "Fits better
into cigarette case" "Smaller/Not Bulky."
|

Finally, when asked about the differences between the cigarettes
themselves, the women in both smoker groups tended to believe

that those cigarettes in the soft pack were "milder/less harsh"
than those in the box.

Generally, we conclude that box packaging is preferred to the
soft paper pack by a majority of women 100mm smokers. However,
this preference is a 'weak'" one, in that it had little impact
on overall preference. Also it appears that cigarettes packed
in the traditional soft paper package are perceived as being
"“milder/less harsh" than those packaged in the hard box.

 

p6Loorlvo0c