minimising the risk posed by workplace toxins,

attempting to place blame for oceupattonal diseases on workers who emoke,
implicitly relieving employers of their obligation te create a safe and healthy
environment for workers by removing these toxins,

and for shifting the responstbility for cleaning up the workplace to the workers.

Moreover, recent studies of major office buildings* oceupted by over 135 thousand
people, have shown that air quality problema initially attributed to ETS have
been found to be due, for the most part, not to ETS, but to eontamination
resulting from poorly maintained and designed ventilation systems: dirt
accumulation tneide atr ducts, tnadequate suppltes of fresh air and inefficient
exhaust systems, can all lead to what is known as “siek building syndrome",

Another recent atudy” of workplace atr qualtty eoneluded that “under most
eondittons, normal ventilation required to matntain a comfortable indoor
environment for other reasons, ts sufficient to prevent annoyance or trritation

for most people." |

Smoking restriettons place unacceptable limits on the individual's fweedom of
choice. When the World Health Organtazation recently issued a directive banning
amoking in their headquarters, the Staff Assoetation objected, and stated:® "To
smoke or not to smoke ts a personal and prtvate chotee, which we believe to be

one of the individual liberties to whtch every human being has a right".

Smoking in atreraft ie already subject to restrietions, and it tie alleged that
more are needed. However, a recent study reported’ that every one of four major
in-flight teats of aircraft eabin tobacco smoke, reached the eonelusion that the
amount of ctgarette smoke detected in actual commnerctal flights is extremely
small. One study coneluded that a person would have to take eight continuous,
28-hour, New-York~Tokyo round trips ~ taking more than nine days ~- to be exposed
to the nicotine equivalent of one cigarette. Moreover, a U.S. survey” found that
82% of passengers are happy with eurrent airline policy. Passengers on most
atrlines are allocated the seat of their chotce ~ either '‘amoking' or

‘non-smoking '.

T10255-0956