-RJ REYNOLDS

TOBACCO COMPANY

D. T. WALSH
Division Sales Manager

160 Lawrence Bell Drive
Suite #108

August 6, 1993 Williamsville, NY 14221
(716) 634-3212
Fax (716) 634-3146

MEETING NOTES (8/4/93)

As a follow-up to our Price Rollback Meeting, be advised as follows:
m™ P, Morris decided not to reduce their mid-price cigarettes an additional
$1.15/carton.

> | believe we need to, as discussed, do business as normal; i.e., coupon and buy-
down in these accounts - who have not reduced their prices - through the 20th of
August. As we see it now, let's plan to stop our buydowns, except for Monarch, and
stop couponing as of August 19, 1993: the 20th is a Regional Holiday.

im We will supply you weekly with a Grid reflecting chains and what date they plan to
reduce their prices. At that time, we should make these calls for rollback P.O.S.
only - no Couponing.

m We also discussed 'Brand Distribution’ in light of MBOs, etc. Obviously, some items
will get lost in the shuffle; however, it is our job to protect our hard-fought for
distribution and not simply - and randomly - discontinue items. A few exceptions
exist; i.e., Doral Non-Filter and some of the Sterling Kg brands.

i» As discussed, Monarch Box offers excellent opportunities and should be a high
priority. Individual MBOs will be reviewed during W/Ws; however, don't plan on
throwing in the towel, so to speak. Brand distribution will still be viewed as a part of
MBOs and evaluations in general.

As an example, enclosed is a Division Comparison, reflecting distribution and product
availability.

It's ‘good news’, ‘bad news' time.

Our Division distribution and product availability in chains and independents on these
specific brands is pretty much in line; however, our distribution in independents overall
is the lowest in the Region, and our product availability on entry, reflecting out-of-
stocks, is way off the mark. Please review these numbers, and let's address improved
stock levels in every call. A sure way to do it is to set a goal of either a prebook or
orderbook order for every account called on, every time you make the call.

uw
ke
~)
ee
Ww
W
~~
©
an