aS

18 Lt et at

TASLE 4 see

Net maximum incaito! 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP,) production by
bealn synaptosomes from newborm (NB) pigs treated with vehicle

of Ibuprofen and from adult pigs
IP, Production
Agent _
NB ~ vehicie NB + ibuprofen Aguk
er oS
Pmeling proteinmin
PGF,, (0.1 yM) 17209 203215" 15.1 =0.8°
Fenprostalene (0.1 .M)} 18207 20.1222" 22.0 = 3.3°
Noradrenaline (0.07 14.6 =1.8 13.7 = 25 61.3 = 62°
uM)

and its analogs did not affect IP production in brain synap-
tosomes (data not shown),

Discussion

We recently reported that brain Synaptosomes of newborn
pigs contained fewer PGE, (EP) and PGF, (FP) receptors
than did adult tissues (Li et al, 1993), Because prostaglandin
concentrations in the brain tissues and plasma are higher in
the newborn than in the adult (Mitchell et al. 1978; Jones et
al., 1993), we tested the hypothesis that the high levels of
PGE, and PGF,, in the newborn might down-regulate EP
and FP receptors. If so, decreasing prostaglandin levels in
the newborn to adult levels should increase EP and FP re-
ceptors. Our results indicated that this is the case.

Tbuprofen (40 mg/kg) or indomethacin (3 mg/kg) efficiently
inhibited PGE, and PGF._ synthesis (table 1) and increased
EP and FP receptors (fig. 1, table 2) and receptor-linked
second messenger production in synaptosomes of the new-
born to levels comparable with the adult {tables 2~4), This
increase was agonist-specific and homologous (table 2): this
conclusion is supported by the data that up-regulation of EP
and FP receptors by indomethacin or ibuprofen could be
Specifically prevented by EP and FP receptor agonists. Fur-
thermore 16,16-dimethyl-PGE, (EP agonist) significantly in-
hibited the up-regulation of EP but not of FP receptors,
whereas fenprostalene (FP agonist) inhibited the up-regula-
tion of FP but not of EP receptors.

The up-regulation of EP and FP receptors caused by a
decrease in prostaglandin levels was further substantiated
by data on second messengers in brain synaptosomes. Acti-
vation of EP, and FP receptors increases IP, production
(Suba and Roth, 1987; Halushke et al., 1989; Watabe et al.,
1993), whereas activation of EP, receptors causes an increase
and of EP, receptors mostly leads to a decrease in cAMP
formation (Jumblatt and Paterson, 1991; Sugimoto et al.,
1992; Honda et ai., 1993; Namba et al,, 1993). We previously
showed that only EP, was detected in newborn brain synap-
tosomes and both EP, and EP, receptors were present in the
adult (Li et of. 1993}. After newborn pigs were treated with
ibuprofen, activation of cAMP synthesis by EP,- and EP,.-
selective agonists was increased. In fact, the EP, receptor-
selective agonist, butaprost, had minimal effect in cAMP on
vehicle-treated newborns but caused a significant increase of

Vet zz

cAMP in ibuprofen-treated newborns to values fpend m acini
tissues (table 3). The EP, agonist, MAB 28.767, ened 2
inhibition of cAMP in ibuprofen-treated newborn animaks t:
the same degree as in the adult and touch greater than iz
vehicle-treated newborn animals (table 3). In the phase o
unaltered NaF- and forskolin-stimulated cAMP productior
after treatment with ibuprofen, the incressed changes ir
cAMP in response to EP,- and EP,-selective agonists woulc
be consistent with increases in EP, and EP, receptors ix
ibuprofen-treated piglets.

In the adult brain synaptosomes PGE, and ll-deaxy-PGE,
affect cAMP production through beth EP, and EP, receptors:
our data imply that the effects of those agents on EP, recep-
tors is predominant in the adult (table 3) because they both
increase cAMP formation and activation of EP, receptors
causes inhibition of cAMP. In vehicle-treated newborn pigs.
PGE, and 11-deoxy-PGE, produced an EP,-mediated inhibi-
tion of cAMP generation. When newborn animals were
treated with ibuprofen, EP,- and EP,-mediated cAMP syn-
thesis reached adult levels. A significant increase in IP,
synthesis by PGF,, and its analog, fenprostalene, in ibupro-
fen-treated newborn animals to levels greater than or similar
to those of the adult (table 4) concur with an increase in FP
teceptors in brain tissue (table 2).

Our data suggest that up-regulation of EP and FP recep-
tors and receptor-linked signal transduction systems by de-
creasing prostaglandin levels seems to occur at the receptor
level rather than at the level of GTP-binding protein and/or
adenylate cyclase or phospholipase C. This inference is sup-
ported by the findings that cAMP production by forskelin and
NaF as well as IP, production by noradrenaline aid not differ
between vehicle- and ibuprofen-treated newborn a=imals (ta-
bles 3 and 4). Moreover the up-regulation in second messen-
Ber systems seems to be mainly due to an increase ia receptor
densities rather than an increase in receptor anities, be-
cause the K, values did not differ significantly among adult
animals and vehicle-, ibuprofen- and indomethacin-treated
newborns (table 2). However, other receptor-effeczsr changes
may have occurred through treatment with ibeprofen. In-
deed cAMP and IP, production by the natural ligands PGE,
and PGF, was greater in newborns treated with ibuprofen
than in adults, despite similar densities of their respective
EP and FP receptors in these two groups (tables 2-4), These
observations may suggest a removal of an inhibizon in sec-
ond messenger activation by the inhibitory GTP-binding pro-
tein after treatment with a blocker of Prostaglandin synthe-
sis (Melien e¢ ¢., 1988) and/or an enhanced recepzor-effector
coupling for PGE, and PGF, as reported with alpha, adre-
noceptors in the brain during development (Schoepp and
Rutledge, 1985), Interestingly the latter may also explain the
increased noradrenaline-induced TP, production in adults
compared with newborns (table 3).

In conclusion, we reported here for the first time results
suggesting that the relatively low EP and FP Teceptor den-
sities in the newborn brain synaptosomes might be due to a
down-regulation of these receptors by the high levels of pros-
taglandins in the newborn animala and these reces:ors could
be increased by inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis. An in-
crease in EP and FP receptors may contribute to 4 matura-
tional decrease in cerebral metabolic rate (Pickard ef al,
1977) and improved control of brain circulation coupled to