Page #2

‘Mr.

D. H. Murphy

September 9, 1981

GROUP COMPOSITION (Cont. )

“smokers aged 18-34. The remaining four groups were all non-

Virginia Slims smokers, two groups composed of 18-24 year olds
and two groups composed of 25-34 year olds. At least half of
the respondents in each group were employed outside of the
home.

MAJOR FINDINGS

The executions perceived by respondents to best portray

the desired imagery of independence, self-confidence and
warm/friendly were the visuals most similar to the "High
Country" campaign. The "Blue Vest" execution was most
favorably received as it projected the desired user imagery,
and was perceived to portray a woman the respondents would
like to emulate.

The only drawback to the "Blue Vest" execution was that

it was perceived as a SALEM ad and therefore may not be as™
effective as desired in communicating that M2 is new/differ-
ent. Also, this execution did not project a sense of
activity, an element which is key to the lifestyles of the
18-24 year olds, the primary M2 target group.

The execution which showed a more stylishly dressed model

‘in "High Country" setting was perceived to be more like a

Virginia Slims ad. This visual did not seem to project
the user imagery of independence, self-confidence, warm/
friendly which is the objective of M2 creative.

An additional imagery-oriented ad, "Eyes", received mixed

reactions among respondents. (This execution superimposed ~
a woman's facial features ~— eyes, nose, mouth - over a _
mountain in. a_"High Country". setting). Respondents indicated
that this visual would be most effective in attracting their
attention in a magazine. However, this attraction would

appear to-be due to a negative reaction, as respondents con-

“sidered this visual format to be "weird". Additionally,

this format seemed to be incapable of projecting a definitive
user image.

The "product-as-hero" ads shown to respondents included an
inset designed to contribute an element of user imagery

to the ads. In general, this execution communicated a
wealth of product attributes, e.g., slim configuration, low
tar, "designer" box, but did not convey a sense of user
imagery. When asked point-blank about the type of woman
shown in the inset, respondents could not assign lifestyle
attributes to the model ("I don't know what she is like, she

is just standing there.")

"9T@ Setog