Page #3
Mr. D. H. Murphy
September 9, 1980

MAJOR FINDINGS (Cont.)

While these ads might be beneficial in introducing M2 and
providing product differentiation versus existing SALEM
styles, these visuals will, most likely, not serve to
build a user image for M2.

In addition to the visuals assessed in the group sessions,

a number of copy lines were also exposed to respondents. The
line which appeared to. be most unique/interesting was "a
Fresh New Look in Menthol". This line seemed to communicate
that M2 was a new/different product, and the inclusion of
"fresh" and "menthol" also addressed product benefits.

The line "Give Me the Simple Life” Was also well received by.
respondents. This line appeared to connote a free/ un-
cluttered lifestyle, but did not speak to product benefits.

Other copy lines used were met with the following reactions:

"Streamline Taste" -- associated with airplanes, trains,
cars, but not cigarettes.

"“Slim-m-m-m" --~ projected product configuration, but
few respondents caught on that "m-m-m" was supposed to
connote good taste.

"Long, Lean and Light™ -- no strong positives or negatives,
did not seem to generate any excitement. The word "lean"
was considered to be a more appropriate description for
meat than cigarettes.

"Tasteful" -- a few respondents reacted favorably to this
line, considering it to mean the product had a lot of
taste. However, the term "tasteful" as applied to user
imagery did not emerge.

"Slimmer is Better"/"Get Your Taste in Shape"/"Call Me

Slim" -- all seen as negatives associated with comments
addressed to overweight women. "Call Me Slim" was also

viewed @ as Being used by a "stuck-up" woman.

‘The last area covered dealt with the types ‘of trial incentives
most appealing to these target smokers. Ideas used were
"“buy-1-get-1-free", cents-off coupons, “two packs—free-with-
carton". Respondents appeared to be receptive to both the
cents-off coupons and the BIGIF offers. The coupon offers ~
seemed to be appealing due to the fact that if the respondents

GCOS

gota