HTs0037085

This AP story on lung cancer, prompted by Arthur Godfrey's
operation, cites the tobacco industry's viewpoint.

DURHAM MORNING HERALD
Durham, North Carolina
May 1, 1959

Lung Cancer Grows Silently

By ALTON BLARESLEE ten the Mirst waralngs B. By thea, case, in see ores of the Amer-

Assocluted Presa Science Wriler2|the cancer lar can Cancer .
Sclenea Wi vanced to be stopped. Excessive cigarette smoking,

NEW YORK (AP) — Arthur! This year, 39,000 American men alr, industrial fumes, vird
Godirey iy the latest victim of the}.nd §600-U.S, women will dio of[¥ses, inherited
silent viciousness of lung cancer.linng cancer, it now is the lead-jthese are blamed as causes of tha
He has a change, depending|ing causo of cancer deaths smong|trasic trend which makes lung
partly upan how early his disease|American men, end it is increas-/cancer now the killer of almost
was caught and how thoroughlyjing among women. ong of every seven Americans who
surgery banished it. Lung cancer is Killing elghtjdie of any form of cancer.
Lung cancer typically starts and|times as mary Americans a3 it} Recent studies increasingly
grows silently and hidden with noldid only 2 yeara ago. Simillar|Indict smokig as a main cause.
sign or symptom, no discomfort./eminous increases are occurring) Tae American Cancer Society
There Is nothing to be seen, likelin other countries. some other health agencies he
cancer on the skin; nothing to be} Lung cancer bears the curse offsmeking is one principal cause.
felt, like a lump im the breast. {showing the most rapid rise ever] The tobacco industry insists, hows
Vbronic cough ang pain are of-’reparted for a noninfectious dla- over, 2 definite link has not bee

Godfrey for years smoked cig-
aeties, but he gave them: up four
years ago, A friend sald he had
found he was allergic to inhale.

of other persona
who smoke have not developed
lung cancer, Some sclentists
thls and other evidence to
that clgarettes ate a cause.

Others say the fact that many
smokera  eSCca| lung cancer

evidence that smoking contributes
heavily to the chances of getting
lung cancer.

Surgery is tha main weapon
against lung cancer, X-rays semte
times help control the disease.

So far no druga have he’
against Jung cancer.