A

7%

December 27, 1965

;

1
?
‘
t¢

Donald J, Massaro, jN.D.

| Chief, Pulmonary Diseace Research Laboratory
V. A, Hospiteh {| .

50 Irving Street, °N.W.

Waghington,, D.C, 20422

\

Dear Doctor Massaro: 1

Upon the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory hoard to the
Council For Tobacco Kesearch, a financial grant has been approved in the
amount of 49,870.00, "for study of comparative racial prevalence of chronic
bronenitis”’, in accordance with the application filed by you under date of
October 27, 1965. me

en eee

It is understood that this grant 16 made subject to acceptance
by the appropriate institutional autborities.
?

" : the board has taken into account your estimate that the project
“will ‘extend through two yeara, and if ig anticipated that, following @ re-
view-of progress in the first year) and the receipt of an application for
renewal, prior consideration will be given to your needs in the alloestion
of fuapis ih the succeeding year.

ye Please refer to the Statement of Policy containing the condi-
thie spd terms uncer woidh the aboveementioned grant ig to be administered,
,  kWhich i enclosed, Po

| Co in preparisg semiannual progress reports ve will appreciate it

| oe if you will use the format show on the enclosed sample and furnish ws with
‘ 15 copies. We would also like to be advised of any published papers result-
ing from thie grant. When reprints arc available we would appreciate 25
copies. ’ i:

$

 

The. Counoil For Tobacco Kepearch will make an announcement of
; thie award in the Annual Keport of the Scientific Director and in press re-
. Leases according to eutebdlished practig¢e.

ke : pny questions of @ acientific nature that may arise concerning
| og the project should be réferred to Dr. Robert CG, Hockett, Associate Scientific
, * Direetor, and we will appreciate your keeping him {nformed of progress at
. intervals,

a After digcoussing the approval of the<project with the proper of-

| ’ : fioers of your institution, will you please. nority wai gf your acceptance of
this grant under the stated terns and indicate the date Gpon which it will

’ become actives. . : a fe

‘ ”
« .. f .
. , # So. OF
: 4 t \ , . ey ‘ 4
t : x a 7 . . f ‘

a
a

a bo