ROU Briefs

9 (AID /RBW/ROW/CA/RAN

  

   
  

 

Sor: AV
FSC-55-A

+} COUPON RETURN PROCEDURES.....The Coupon

Management Systems has been discontinued effective

April 1, 1995. All orders for preprinted coupons should
continue to be reviewed for reasonableness using SiS
activity. Ensure with the increased use of the poget and
notebooks that orders for preprinted coupons are limited to
an as needed basis. The following procedures are in place
for the return of coupons.

 
        
    
   
    
      
      
     
   
    
 

   

 

 

   

xpired Coupons:
Request Division Management to send, to the ROU, all
preprinted coupons that will be expiring. Any coupon that
has expired or is to expire within three months is
considered an expired coupon.
Work with Division Management to ensure that coupons
sent to the ROU are not lost in transit.

  
    
    
  
   
  

 
 

        
  
      
 

To the extent possible, coupons should be accumulated to
a minimum of 50 pounds (total packages) and shipped via
Consolidated Freight with third party billing to RJRT. Any
small remaining shipments under 50 pounds (total weight
of all boxes) are to be shipped Airborne - Second Day with
third party billing to RJRT. Since this is very expensive,
please minimize use of this shipping method. Do not return
coupons via UPS. Please use “printed matter” as the
freight description when completing your bill of lading.

   
      
   
   
    
   
    
       
  

Call Dennis Jacobs (extension 4760) once all coupons from
all divisions are received at the ROU and packaged for
shipping. Dennis will provide you with a Return Tracking
Number. Please be prepared to provide him with the exact
number of boxes being returned.

       
     
     
   

All cases must be labeled with “ship from’ and “ship to”
addresses without reference to "RJR Tobacco Company”
as this creates interest in the package. Each box should be
marked with the Return Tracking Number provided by
Dennis and numbered as follows: 1 of 10, 2 of 10, etc. All
boxes should be taped securely to prevent the box from
bursting open during transit. Send returns to:

  
     
    
   
    
      
    

RJRT clo GATX Logistics, Inc.
5900 Grassy Creek Boulevard
Winston-Salem, NC 27105
Attention: Katie Young

  
   
     
  
 
 

  

Returning Active Coupons:
Call Geraldine Nicks at 767-9230 (voicemail 741-3328) or
Barbara Mason at 741-3342 for a Return Authorization
Number.

 
      

  

 
  

 
 

4/5/3

“ge “ea

Return only full rolls of active (unexpired) coupons. Only
complete SKU's can be returned and each case must be
marked with the assigned RA number.

Box up the coupons taping them shut securely, and label
each box with your “ship from” address and the following
address:

RUJRTIGATX Logistics, Inc.
5900 Grassy Creek Boulevard
Winston-Salem, NC 27105
RAH

> BPE ENHANCEMENTS.....Two new copy functions have
been added to BPE based on a suggestion submitted by
Chicago Promotion Coordinator, Ellen Ganschaw. Please
review the following steps for using these functions:

4. Select Function V56 -“Copy VAP Templates” or G54-
"Copy Generic Templates”

2. Select with an “X” the appropriate template you need
copied (only 1 template at one time may be selected)
and press “enter”.

You may also delete templates with this function by
entering a “D” by the appropriate templates (an
unlimited number of templates may be deleted at one
time).

3. Rename the template and press “PFS” to copy
template.

4. To review your list of templates refer to Function V52 for
VAP and/or Function G52 in GTP.

Important:

Your original template(s) will remain in tact for future
reference. However, when you create a copy version of a
VAP Template, the system will automatically delete
accounts that are no longer linked to the direct account to
keep your new template as current as possible.

if you have questions, please call Sharon Reid, Sales
Planning - Ext. 2584.

*} SMS 422 GENERAL SHIPMENT ORDERS - SHIPPING
MEMO OPTION..... The SMS general shipment ordering
function 422 ("Gen Ship-Same Qty Batch Release”)
function now has an option to print or not print shipping
memos. (This option is not available when ordering at the
national »:000« level.)

T6OL ZOsts