a

ROU Briefs

SMS 422 GENERAL SHIPMENT ORDERS - SHIPPING
MEMO OPTION.....(CONTINUED)

At the end of the 422 ordering process a new prompt is
displayed:

Print Shipping Memos? N (YM)

The default is ‘N' for no. Key ‘Y’ if you do want to print
shipping memos.

If you do request shipping memos, the memos continue to
be generated as they have been in the past (ordering and
receiving divisions get memos).

If you have additional questions, please contact Charlotte
Vogler (6690) or Vanessa Perry (6113).

*} REPAIR OF FIELO SALES ATTACH = CASE #114340.....
We have a new procedure to repair the Samsonite Attaché
Case. As mentioned in previous communications, this item
carries a full three-year warranty. Due to the cost of this
item, please ensure this procedure is followed so we can
take full advantage of our purchase agreement with
Samsonite.

Effective immediately, please adhere to the following

guideline when experiencing problems with the attaché
case.

e Contact the Samsonite Repair Center on the attached
list that services your area prior to sending in the

case.

e Include your name, address and phone number with
the shipment.

e Repairs not covered under warranty should be paid by |
Region.

If the attaché case is not repairable, you will be contacted
and given further instructions.

This new procedure should expedite the repair time you

have experienced by going through Hinkle’s (Corporate
Express).

Please direct all questions to Don Williams, Ext, 5503.

*} MILITARY DORAU/MONARCH PROMOTION
ALLOWANCE.....The attached letter was sent to all military
sales personnel by the Military BBU. However, it should be
sent, as information, to general market sales reps who have
responsibility for military accounts. Please send a copy to
only those reps in your region who have military accounts.

Cs

451 55¢A page 2 0

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   

PA |

NEW VEHICLES/DOOR-TO-DOOR DELIVERY.....
Door-to-Door delivery for new vehicles has been implemented
by PHH to help fleet drivers manage their time more wisely.
Door-to-Door delivery is where vehicles are delivered directly
to the drivers home or office. To date, the program has been
implemented in the following areas: Oo

Baltimore, MD Los Angeles, CA

Chicago, IL Minneapolis, MN

Detroit, Mi All of Ohio

Houston, TX Philadelphia, PA

The following will be implemented by May 1, 1995. s iB
Atlanta, GA San Francisco, CA
Boston, MA Seattle, WA

Dallas, TX

In all cities listed above except Detroit, the delivery to the
driver will be handled by the dealership actually receiving the
new vehicle. In Detroit the delivery to the driver will be
handled by an outside service company, Qual-Effic.

Delivery time and location should be selected by the driver at
his/her convenience. The driver should ensure that the new
vehicle delivery, the pick up of the trade-in vehicle and the
transfer of products/supplies does not exceed one hour. This
will ensure the delivery service/dealership and RJRT driver
utilizes their time most effectively.

Fleet Operations will keep you apprised of new cities as they
are added to the program.

MAGNAJSTERLING VPR'S/COUPONS.....Several regions
have requested MAGNA or STERLING VPR/Coupon Poget
codes. All future requests for these brands must be approved
by your Area AVP or Director.

DPG.....Minnesota should be added to the list of fair trade
states in which you cannot pay the direct account for reducing
the price on our product to retail. You must order reduced list
price product.

BEST PRACTICES/SHARING IDEAS....Many regions have

request 6” fonts for signage. These can be made by using
your digital & strips currently provided.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY

Attachments

. C6OL ZOsTs