7
| Rubin Barney & Birger March 13, 1996

l

: THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

In Courtrooms, the Debate

May Never Be the Same

By MiLo Geyeun
And Ricuarp B. Scumirr
Staff Reporters of Tur Wau. Srancr JOURNAL

Liggeit Group’s tentative settlement of
a giant class-action suit against the to-
bacco industry could alter the dynamics of
tobacco litigation forever.

Plaintiffs would receive only a meager
sum for smoking-cessation programs, but
some legal experts predict the settlement
will set a benchmark for the industry’s
legal liability and may help potential ju-
rors get used to the idea that tobacco
companies should pay damages.

Moreover, lawyers for the plaintiffs
anticipate more immediate benefits in the
class-action suit, known as Castano and
brought on behalf of every U.S. smoker
who claims to be addicted. The industry
is set to argue next month before a federal
appeals court in New Orleans that the case
is too big and unmanageable to proceed as
a class action. The Liggett settlement, say
plaintiffs lawyers, will help them deflect
that argument by showing that the issues
can be resolved through negotiations.

“The principal objection is that this
case is so large and complex that it’s not
manageable. This settlement will show
that it not only is manageable but that
we've managed it,” says Richard Hei-
mann of the San Francisco firm Lieff,
Cabraser & Heimann.

That argument will become even more
compelling if Bennett LeBow, who controls
Liggett parent Brooke Group Ltd., suc-
ceeds in his bid to merge Liggett with the
nation’s second-largest tobacco company,
the Reynolds Tobacco unit of RJR Nabisco
Corp. If that happens, Mr. LeBow’s settie-
ment would extend to the combined entity,
which would have a 27% market share.

The 44-page settlement, which requires
court approval, also includes a number of
provisions that could further divide the
tobacco companies and give plaintiffs a leg
up in the fact-finding phase of the litiga-
tion. Chief among them is a provision
requiring Liggett to disclose “any fraudu-
lent or illegal conduct” by any tobacco
company that results in the suppression of
evidence or otherwise is “designed to
frustrate or. defeat” plaintiffs.

“We're not going tosee any more of this
stonewalling and hiding documents,” said
Russ M. Herman of Herman, Herman,
Katz & Cotiar in New Orleans. “If they've
got them, we're going to get them.”

Some people say the pizintiffs lawyers
gave up too much to get those concessions.
Under the settlement’s terms, Mr. LeBow
could cancel the deal and terminate pay-
ments at any time if he decides too
many smokers have rejected the terms and
opted out. Mr. LeBow couid also walk away
if his former co-defendants score a court-
room victory.

At the very least, the settlement would
enable Mr. LeBow to slash Liggett’s $10-
million-a-year bill for defending itself in
tobacco lawsuits. At current profit levels,
Liggett would pay ne more than $2 million
a year for 25 years under the settlement.

it “seems like a sweetheart deal’ for
Liggett, says Larry Schonbrun, an Oak-
land, Calif., lawyer who is often critical of
class actions.

Some other tobacco litigants also criti-
cize the deal as a giveaway. ‘‘The settle-
ment is just an embarrassment,” says
Miami plaintiffs lawyer Stanley Rosenb-
latt, who has a statewide class-action suit
against the tobacco industry pending in
Florida. Liggett’s lawyers believe that the
Castano settlement will supersede Mr. Ro-
senblatt’s claims against the company.

Still unclear is whether Liggett can
persuade enough states to.join a separate
settlement to resolve another slew of law-
suits seeking compensation for the cost to
taxpayers of providing health care to

ECOSSELTO]