TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS —
DECEMBER 1994

NUMBER 27

does. The Health Minister’s approach has failed as a recent Health Department survey
found that underage youths were still able to purchase tobacco 80% of the time in NSW.
The NSW law needs to be rewritten to make enforcement practical, and Minister Phillips
needs to resort to enforcement.

QUEENSLAND- The State Government introduced a Tobacco Products Control Bill
which would provide for criminal prosecution with fines of up to $1500 for children under
16. Children who refused to answer police questions could be fined as well. A spokesman
for Health Minister Ken Hayward said, "The primary strategy of the draft legislation is to
attack the supply side- to restrict the availability to children". Fines for suppliers would
be increased from $60 maximum to $4800, The National Children’s and Youth Law
Centre spoke out against the possession provisions of the bill.

CANADA- The federal ban on the sale of "kiddie" packs with fewer than 20 cigarettes has
gone into force. Inspectors under the Tobacco Sales to Young Persons Act can enforce
this provision. An Arizona firm unsuccessfully attempted to win approval for the sale of
single cigarettes from vending machines. (Source: Rob Cunningham)

ONTARIO- The Ontario Tobacco Control Act was nraclaimed into force November 30.
A training session for enforcement officers was held in October. If a retailer loses their
license they must post a sign saying "We cannot sell tobacco because we were convicted
of tobacco sales offences. Smoking is a major health hazard.".

UNITED STATES

ALABAMA- According to USA TODAY, the illegal sale of tobacco products to youth
participating in an undercover investigation dropped from 80% in April, to 23%. I don’t
know if this is just one town. It certainly couldn’t be a state-wide sample.

ARIZONA- Buckeye has joined Scottsdale in banning vending machines. Tucson restricts
them to bars where minors are not allowed. *** A survey by the Arizona Department of
Health Services found that minors were able to purchase tobacco in 4 out of ten retail
outlets. The over-the counter rate was 38.2% and the vending machine rate was 82.9%.
Five merchant education seminars were conducted. *** The Phoenix city council is
considering restricting vending machines to bars and requiring tokens.

CALIFORNIA- Since early 1992, the Stop Tobacco Access for Minors Project has
successfully advocated for and facilitated the enactment and implementation of strong

2

ZI’ @6ETS