TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
NUMBER 27 DECEMBER 1994

in Providence and East Providence. Ten compliance tests were performed and 4 citations
were issued.

UTAH- Students will attempt to pass a "Reduced Tobacco Access to Minors" bill this year.
Last year they were largely responsible for passing a clean indoor air bill. They will be
holding a Students Against Tobacco rally in February.

VERMONT- Since the enactment of a very good youth access law in 1991, there have
been only nine $100 fines issued to an estimated 3,500 retailers. While a state-wide
coalition is working to legislate funding to implement state-wide compliance testing, Bruce
Cunningham has taken it on to set the example. In a matter of 25 minutes, he conducted
compliance tests of all six merchants in his town of Hinesburg. The youth was successful
in 4 of the 6 attempts to purchase. Bruce in now looking for volunteers in other towns to
initiate regular compliance testing until a state inspector can be funded.

VIRGINIA- The Center for Substance Abuse Prevention has informed Virginia that its
state law may not meet the requirements of Synar since it provides an exemption for
vending machines. "Under your current statute, merchants who have vending machines
in their store or on their premises, in order to be in compliance with the statute, merely
have to post a sign on the vending machine that purchase or possession of tobacco
products by minors in unlawful. Having done that, under the statute, they need not
prohibit minors form accessing the machines.” Another letter from CSAP notes concern
over the word "knowingly" in Virginia’s law, "while the inclusion of this term may weaken
Virginia’s ability to enforce it’s statute, we do not at this time believe it should be a
compliance measure with respect to the Federal distribution of tobacco products to those
under the age of 18."

WISCONSIN- Police compliance checks of 34 retailers resulted in the issuance of 16 fines
in De Pere. Green Bay police and the county Sheriff's Department are now willing to
work with the Tobacco Free Brown County Coalition. *** The Circuit Court has
overtumed an ordinance in Fond du Lac on the basis of preemption by pre-existing state
law.

TOBACCO INDUSTRY- American Tobacco is test marketing a new cigarette brand,
Special 10's, which will sell in packs of 10 cigarettes. In Canada, where cigarettes have
been more expensive, these "kiddie packs" have been seen for sometime. Because of their
special appeal to youngsters on a limited budget, they have been outlawed in Canada.
Now is the time to outlaw them in the United States, before they are marketed.

5

 

STTh O6ETS