TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
DECEMBER 1994

NUMBER 27

Philip Morris claims that more than 50,000 of the nations one million tobacco
retailers have received “It’s the Law" merchant education materials. Ina letter to San Jose
STAT, Philip Morris claims that "the program has proved enormously successful". Perhaps,
but it hasn’t reduced youth access.

Advertising Age is calling for increased enforcement of youth access laws instead of
a ban on tobacco advertising as the solution for teen smoking.

PUBLICATIONS: The Attorneys General Working Group on Tobacco has issued a report
on its investigation into the illegal sale of tobacco to children. They have met with
representatives of various retail chains to get the industry’s perspective and input. The
report starts with a review of the facts that are familiar to workers in this field. They then
80 on to describe how tobacco sales vary in importance in different aspects of the retail
community. In convenience stores tobacco sales account for 20-30% of all sales, but
account for less than 5% of sales in supermarkets and drug stores. The report describes
how some chain stores have programmed their scanners to lock when a tobacco item is
scanned. To proceed with the sale, the clerk must enter the customer’s birthdate from
their identification card. Some chains have hired their own "mystery shoppers" to conduct
compliance checks on their own stores. The report makes 12 recommendations for
retailers and 10 for legislatures. Their top two recommendations for retailers are to use
secret shoppers and to program their scanners to prompt clerks to ask for proof of age.
The Group also notes that if the tobacco manufacturers were sincere in their concern
about youth access to tobacco they should provide the same promotional allowances to
merchants who keep all of their tobacco products behind the counter. Copies of the report
can be obtained by calling (212) 416-8300.

Cismoski J, Sheridan M. Tobacco acquisition practices of adolescents in two Wisconsin
communities. Wis Med J. 1994;93(11):585-591. A survey of 2000 students in two
communities revealed that 8th graders tend to bum or buy tobacco from friends while 10th
and 12th graders primarily purchase from vendors. Almost half of the 8th and 10th grade
tobacco users had shoplifted tobacco in the previous year, with 12% most often obtaining
tobacco in this manner.

Cismoski J. Blinded by the light: The folly of tobacco possession Jaws against minors. Wis
Med J 1994;93(11):591-598.

MW

9TTe O6ETS