TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
NUMBER 27 DECEMBER 1994

youth access ordinances in 24 local jurisdictions in 5 counties in Northern California.
Several of these. laws prohibit self-service of tobacco products, they must be kept behind
the counter or in a locked case. Rick Kropp believes that restrictions on self-service are
an important factor in improving merchant compliance with the prohibition on the sale of
tobacco to minors. STAMP is conducting serial compliance checks to determine if this is
the case. (Contact: Rick Kropp (707) 762-4591)

GEORGIA- The law requires every city police department and county sheriff's department
to conduct annual random unannounced inspections of tobacco vendors. This law is being
ignored in most places, in other places police are only inspecting for signs. From the
responses to a letter from GASP, it is not clear if any of the police departments are
actually conducting compliance checks.

MASSACHUSETTS: As part of a study to determine the effects of compliance testing on
the prevalence of tobacco use, a team lead by Dr Nancy Rigotti has been doing semi-
annual compliance tests of all merchants in six communities. Quincy has approximately
200 vendors and Somerville has around 180, While conducting compliance tests in
Somerville, the team has averaged 10 tests per hour. In Quincy, the initial round of
inspections was completed at a rate of only 5 tests per hour beeavse Quincy does not
license vendors and they had to be searched out. The second round of tests in Quincy
proceeded at a rate of 10 per hour. Licensing of vendors can significantly reduce the cost
of doing the initial round of-compliance tests.

State officials expect 200 funded health departments to conduct a minimum of two
compliance checks each year. Additionally, officers funded by a $5 million grant to the
DARE program are also expected to conduct compliance checks this year. These efforts
will cover more than half of the 351 communities in Massachusetts.

NEW HAMPSHIRE- I have been working with the Coalition on Smoking and Health to
draft a youth access bill for New Hampshire. A committee was formed to draft the bill
which went through at least seven drafts as input was received from key legislators, law
enforcement officials, and representatives from the Department of Revenue and the
Liquor Commission. Under the proposed bill, The Dept of Revenue will license vendors
and the Liquor Commission will conduct compliance checks. An increase in license fees
will fund new positions in both departments. The bill was introduced at a press conference
with at least 50 people in attendance. Participants in the JAYS program have been helpful
in this effort with one member actually filing a bill to ban vending machines. It is possible
that RJ Reynold’s plan to involve the JAYCEES in promoting the youth access issue may
backfire when these volunteers take their charge seriously.

3

n

 

ETT’ O6ETS