TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
NUMBER 27 DECEMBER 1994

Now that states are beginning to seriously consider how to enforce their youth access
laws, they need to be able to project the personnel and budgets this will require. Although
I recommend that communities plan to conduct compliance checks on a quarterly basis,
this recommendation is based on the limited data we have available and is really no more
than an educated guess. For example, it is possible that as compliance testing becomes
commonplace and corporations adopt their own policies and training programs, less
frequent testing may be adequate. It is also possible that larger fines may reduce the
required frequency of testing. ,

In other words, there is much that remains unknown about how these laws can be
best enforced, and there will be a critical need for this information in the very near future.
While compliance testing is underway in a variety of locations, the data from this
experience is not being collected and analyzed to make it helpful to others.

1 am seeking funding from the Centers for Disease Control to use the Tobacco
Access Law News network to identify enforcement programs throughout the US, and to
collect and analyze the data available from these programs so that effective state
enforcement programs can be designed.

The grant reviewers seck more specific information about what enforcement
programs are currently underway. I am therefore asking each of my US and Canadian
readers who receive this wonderful newsletter free to complete the form on the last page
of this newsletter and mail it back to me as soon as possible. Thank you for your help.

AUSTRALIA

NEW SOUTH WALES- The current law requires children to testify and provides a
defence that the child looked old enough. Prosecutions have ben rare. Public Health
Units have received a total of 327 complaints to which they responded with 271 warning
letters. Due to public pressure the government hired a police prosecutor for a one year
contract to do prosecutions. Still, prosecutions have been few. In response to a letter
from Dr Chesterfield-Evans, Health Minister Phillips wrote that "prosecutions are not
always seen as the most appropriate manner to ensure that retailers are aware of the
legislation and comply with its requirements. Research has indicated that a high level of
compliance is achieved through the use of alternative methods to prosecutions such as
warning letters and retailer education...it is my view that prosecutions should be seen as
an act of last resort." For the record, the research does not indicate what he claims it

VW

TTT’ O6€ETS