TOBACCO ACCESS LAW NEWS
NUMBER 27 DECEMBER 1994

NEW JERSEY- Five towns in New Jersey now require that tobacco sellers be at least 18

 

years of age. I have not recommended this as a general strategy for a number of reasons.
T have not seen data to show that clerks under 18 make significantly more illegal sales than
do clerks 18 and up. Adopting such a restriction would represent a real hardship for many
retailers, and more importantly, it would have a major impact on the nuniber of job
opportunities available for teenagers. Until someone can show that the benefits outweigh
the costs, I would not recommend such restrictions. *** Self-service bans have been
enacted in 9 localities. Total vending machine bans now number 24, vending machine
restrictions, 10, and lockout devices, 8. *** A survey conducted by the Perth Amboy
Community Partnership for Youth found that illegal sales had declined from 67% two
years ago to 43% last year, and 16% this year. The city adopted a youth access ordinance
in March. .

NEW YORK- Dr Mike Cummings conducted 179 compliance checks in Erie County, NY.
Illegal sales were made by 61% of outlets with the worst performance by gas stations and
convenience stores (79%) and the best by pharmacies (32%). The best compliance rates
were seen in the two communities that are conducting their own compliance checks. More
than half of the vendors who had the state-mandated sign posted still sold to minors, but
this is slightly hetter than the 71% illegal sales rate from vendors with no siens. Three out
of the four vendors with "It’s the Law" signs sold to minors.

Dr. Cummings reports 14 of 47 large health departments in New York have
conducted compliance checks, but most have done three or fewer. Eleven departments
have collected fines for violations. Suffolk and Chautauqua counties have been the most
active. A total of 646 stores have been fined a total of $34,950.

OREGON- Minors were successful in about half of their attempts to buy tobacco in

Jackson, Josephine, Linn, and Polk Counties.

PENNSYLVANIA- Due to widespread opposition by health agencies, child advocates,
editorial boards and concerned legislators orchestrated by SmokeFree Pennsylvania, the
Senate defeated a bill which would have lowered the minimum age from 21 to 18,
outlawed 15 local vending machine ordinances, and prohibited health officials from
enforcing the law,

RHODE ISLAND- The Governor's Task Force reports that minors would have been able
to purchase tobacco from 57% of clerks and 82% of vending machines. The task force
recommended only very limited enforcement consisting of 325 compliance checks each year
for the 3100 vendors in the state. The task force conducted "pilot enforcement activities"

4

 

PIT @6ETS