PHILIP MORRIS USA CONFIDENTIAL

4. 14C-Nylar® transfer study (R. Izac)

The Phase I study of radiolabelled Nylar® transfer has been completed well within
schedule. Documentation has been completed and reviewed, with distribution imminent.
A decision about identifying an external GLP laboratory to carry out this work will be
taken following determination of subjectives, now in progress (see 6., below). Richard
Izac has agreed to prepare a draft of the necessary protocol, which EPA has asked to
review (through MGK). Such a protocol will also undoubtedly be necessary in order to
negotiate a contract with candidate GLP laboratories. Richard is prepared to serve.as
technical liaison with whatever GLP laboratory is selected.

5. Analytical Methods (S. S. Yang)

Studies continue to make the analysis of Nylar®, already used in the "research"
mode, more robust and "technician-friendly". A single-step extraction method is being
tested, a major consideration of which is the identification of a column matrix for HPLC
separation and analysis that will allow ca, 500 injections percolumn. The anticipated
through-put is 30 samples per 24 hrs.

6. Smoke Panel evaluations (G. Yatrakis)

Cigarette fillers (Marlboro blend without aftercut and a Mount blend) were
sprayed with Nylar® in 95% ethanol to achieve levels of 5, 15, 30 and 50 ppm. Analysis
(S. S. Yang) showed that the targets were met. Cigarettes made from these preparations
are to be subjectively evaluated by a small panel of expert smokers. The results are not
yet available.

7. Revisions of scheduled activities

Preparation of fillers and cigarettes for the 90-day inhalation study has been
postponed until the week of 7 March (see 2., above), pending results of subjective
evaluation (see 6., above).

8. Next meeting and agenda

NIT will meet Thursday, 24 February 1994, 10:00 - 11:30 AM in Conference
Room T4, W. Hempfling will review the 17 February meeting with F: Preiss of MGK. T.
Cravotta, R. Solana and M. Zimmermann are hereby invited to participate. The
established agenda will be followed.

Distribution: Members, Nylar® Implementation Team

E. Bailey G. Koval

D. Coar G. Patskan

D. Faustini S. S. Yang

R. Izac G. Yatrakis

R. Carchman R. Ferguson R. Solana

R. Cox H. Grubbs M. Zimmermann
T: Cravotta D. Hill (Leaf) cc: Central File
C. Ellis R. Kinser

DOC CODE: P0622

eOzbTStz0z