PHILIP MORRIS USA CONFIDENTIAL

PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Richmond, Virginia

To: Distribution Date: 3 February 1994

From: W. P. Hempfling (Coordinator) bohe te ian
Subject: Minutes of the January meeting of the Nylar® Implementation Team

The Nylar® Implementation Team (NIT) met in Conference Room T4 on 19
January 1993, 10:00 - 11:30 AM. Those present were E. Bailey, D. Coar, T. Cravotta,
D. Faustini, W. Hempfling, R. Izac, G. Koval, G. Patskan, R. Solana, S. S. Yang, G.
Yatrakis and M. Zimmermann. The meeting proceeded according to an already
established agenda.

The present minutes, with suitable addenda, will serve as January's monthly
report to Drs. Ellis, Grubbs and Kinser.

Dr. Rick Solana attended for the first time, and will be regularly invited to
- participate in future meetings..

An outline of pertinent planned activities under Entomological Support (SOCP), of
which Nylar® Implementation is a part, was presented by W. Hempfling. This
information had recently been related to the R&D Directors in the SOCP Planning
Meeting of 17 January.

W. Hempfling and G. Patskan prepared and sent a letter to Dr. F. Preiss of
MGK/Sumitomo on 23 December 1993, requesting necessary information to be received
by 7 January 1994. This was followed by a telephone call to Preiss by Hempfling on 11
January. A reply, postmarked 7 January, was received on 12 January. The contents were
distributed to the members of NIT at this meeting.

At his request, F. Preiss of MGK will visit us on 17 February to discuss matters of
mutual interest. Daryl Faustini will host and arrange Preiss's schedule.

Daryl also suggested that we consider a third party (namely, Jellinek, Schwartz &
Connolly, Inc., Washington DC) to facilitate and prosecute labelling interactions with the
EPA through MGK.

 

 

Review of Progress To Date

1. Insect bioassay
D. Coar reported that sufficient numbers of CBs had been accumulated to initiate a

study in which their responses to Nylar® will be again measured. This will be done at
concentrations on tobacco of 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 ppm, beginning in the week of 24
January, one week before the anticipated date. Insects that emerge from Nylar®-treated

wozptstzoz

DOC CODE: P0622

.