PHILIP MORRIS USA CONFIDENTIAL

tobacco will be assessed for their fecundity. We expect the results to be available after
two months.

Danise reminded us that, upon testing at 10 ppm Nylar®, six CBs emerged of the
1,400 CBs inoculated. A “buffer” to ensure 100% mortality must be added above this
level, so that the best estimate of the final “label” dose is in the range 20 - 30 ppm.

2. Toxicological studies (G. Patskan)

INBIFO's smoking protocol for the anticipated 90-day inhalation study was
distributed to MGK and the interested cigarette companies by Covington and Burling.
Greorge Patskan has received suggestions and favorable comment to date from MGK,
Reynolds, Lorillard and Liggett. George went on to relate that Reynolds is prepared to
supply and install up to five smoking machines for the study, but will not contribute funds.
On the other hand, Lorillard “might” (no commitment) contribute to the cost. B&W has
not communicated with George since the August, 1993 Hyatt meeting.

The 90-day inhalation study will begin only after subjective testing has been
satisfactorily completed. Accordingly, preparation of cigarettes for the inhalation study
has been postponed.

According to G. Yatrakis, large-scale filler preparation (Semiworks) has been
scheduled for the week of 7 March, followed by making during the week of 14 March.
Cigarettes will then be prepared (trays) for shipping to the contract laboratory (not yet
identified) in the second week of April. George pointed out that a delay in shipping will
require storage of the cigarettes, and on-site storage facilities are unavailable (that is,
contract storage must be arranged in advance if a delay is anticipated at that time).

T. Cravotta reported that trial large-scale application of Nylar® to filler at a target
of 100 ppm has been completed. The result, considered satisfactory, was filler containing
89.6 ppm Nylar®, with standard deviation of 5.3 ppm. We are hence prepared to proceed
with large-scale sprayings. An additional supply of Nylar® will be required. Hempfling
replied that MGK (F. Preiss) is ready to provide that need upon purchase request.

3. Application Technology (E. Bailey)

Information regarding an important aspect of the final formulation was recently
received from MGK (D. Carlson). It appears that the solubility limit of Nylar® in ethanol,
at room temperature, is ca, 5%, a value confirmed here by R. Izac. Richard continues to
investigate the temperature dependency of Nylar® solubility in ethanol. We anticipate
that SDA4 will probably be used as carrier for application. The additional ethanol needed
to apply Nylar® at 20 - 30 ppm is both a financial and environmental concern.

Dary] Faustini recollected that carbon dioxide had proved to be a solvent for
methoprene. It is possible that it may be useful for Nylar® application. We will consult
with E. Thomas (ARD) to determine feasibility.

A possible means of reducing the ethanol/Nylar® ratio is sonolation, suggested by
Tom Cravotta, perhaps in addition to, or combination with, elevated temperature of the
solution.

DOC CODE: P0622

ZOZPESTZOZ