TO: Bob Bexon

 

Nick Brookes 4

John Jewell ‘ fA
Mick McGraw = aay
Carl Schoenbachler /

=
CC: Walt Carpenter Mark Kovatch Baw

Frank Chong Rolf Provan
Kay Culliton Rob Stowe
John Heironimus Tom Wilson
FROM: Dan Haley

DATE: +; May 12, 1997

f /
SUBJECT: Direct Mail pdate
OBJECTIVE .

——————

To communicate the range of activity and progress made through Direct Mail programs.

1997 ACTIVITY

 

Six programs were executed in the first quarter consisting of 4 single, priority-brand mailings and two
multi-brand pieces. The three packages mailed in January and February (Carlton, Kool and Pall
Mall/Tareyton/Viceroy) are redeeming at a higher than anticipated pace and produced a noticeable
increase in awareness based on the U.S. Market Monitor. It is too early to comment on the March
mailings.

Second quarter mailings include Capri, Kool, Carlton Collection | and Lucky Strike (SF), as well as
another non-priority mailing. All will focus on competitive smokers, while Carlton Collection {I will
also target its franchise . Two additional offensive pieces have been added as part of the
aggressive share growth plan. The first will be sent to past redeemers and will consist of nine
brands, while the second targets prime full-revenue prospects and includes coupons for six brands.

Third and fourth quarter programs are strictly to drive volume, while continuing to identify
misredeemers and single-brand redeemers. There are three programs aimed at past redeemers
and one targeted at prime value-for-money prospects.

DATABASE

 

Continuous enhancements are being made to the database. B&W programs have added 1.4 million
new redeemers since 41/95. Identification of past redeemers is critical to direct mail’s success as
these smokers tend to redeem new offers at significantly higher rates. Additionally, using LOGIT
models, all database names have been ranked according to their propensity to redeem B&W brands
based on demographics, past usage, income, etc.

Eliminating misredeemers is another key objective. It is anticipated the Kool “poison pill” program will
eliminate over 40,000 misredeemers from the database. In the third quarter, a Savannah Lights
“poison pill’ coupon will be sent to all past redeemers in order to identify additional misredeemers.
As a result of continuous purchases, redemptions, purging and elimination of duplicate names the
database currently contains approximately 43.3 million adult smokers.

432302119
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE