There are 50 state cards, plus two list cards (a card listing the 25 states in each set) and two
limited edition cards, for a total of 54 cards. The series will be issued in two sets of 25, in
addition to the list card and limited edition card, for a total of 27 cards per set.

4, Who designed the cards/took photographs/did artwork?
Coyne Beahm, Inc., the advertising agency for Doral, designed the cards and did the artwork.
The photography for the series comes from a variety of photographers from across the
country that submitted their work upon request from the agency.
(If asked to arrange interview with Coyne Beahm, decline)
Reynolds Tobacco speaks for its brand programs rather than referring questions to
others.

Collector cards will appear on Doral cigarette packs for a limited time only. Since all
packs are distributed in cartons, a consumer who purchases a carton while the cards
are in distribution should get a card on each of their 10 packs.

5. Where can consumers get these cards and for how long? 4

6. Is there any extra cost to the consumer?
None.

7. How are the cards inserted?
At manufacturing, in between the pack and polypropylene film.

8, How long have cigarette cards been around?
Cigarette cards date back to the 1800s. They are being re-introduced and updated for
the 21" century by Doral through their Celebrate America Collector Cards as a way of
building on the brand’s promise of giving adult smokers more value for their money.

9, What are list cards and how many are there?
A card listing the 25 states in the set. There is one list card per set.

10. What is cartophily?

The hobby of collecting cigarette, tobacco and trade cards.

11. What are the different card classifications?

In general, the better condition that any type of collector cards is in, the more

valuable they usually are. And with most collectibles, value increases over time as the

cards become harder to find.

yt

12. How long will consumers be able to get these cards? ‘ eo

While supplies last. The first set from the series will enter the marketplace in early \

2001 and the second set will follow soon thereafter.

13. What does the number on each card mean?
The number indicates the state’s order of entry into the union.

14, What size are the cards?
They are approximately 2 % inches in width by 1 % inches in height.

980} 6eScs