CONFIDENTIAL

(For Response Only)
4,
yy Doral Celebrate America Collector Cards
¥ General Statement/Q and A
Final Version
November 2, 2000
GENERAL STATEMENT

Doral, the leader in the value-price cigarette category, is introducing cigarette collector
cards in early 2001 through the Celebrate America Collector Cards program. The 50
states will be featured on the cards and will be issued in two sets of 25 (plus a card listing
the states in the set and limited edition cards). The first set is scheduled to appear in the
marketplace in early 2001, and the second set wil! follow soon thereafter. Collector cards
will appear on select Doral cigarette packs for a limited time only.

Card collecting, or cartophily as experts call it, has been a favorite pastime for collectors
dating back to the 19" century. It is being revived and updated for the 21" century by
Doral through their Collector Cards series as a way of building on the brand’s promise of
giving adult smokers more value for their money.

The collector cards combine the nostalgia of days gone by with modern-day design,
giving collectors a highly collectible card series. The front of each card features photos of
a landmark or historically preserved scene from the state represented, while the back of
the card gives a description of what’s pictured and several facts about the state. The cards
do not carry any cigarette brand names or logos.

Q&A:

1. Why have you decided to do collector cards now?
Doral is capitalizing on adult smokers’ interest in collectibles. Many Doral smokers
have told us they enj oy “collecting” as a hobby. Tobacco collector cards were very
popular during the 19" century — losing their popularity circa 1940 — and no major
American cigarette brand has distributed them since.

2. What is the cost of the program?
This information is confidential. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company does not discuss the costs
of any marketing programs, for proprietary reasons.

3. How many cards are there in each series?

S80l 6zeSgz¢