15. How did you determine which scene/photo to use on the cards?
We tried to depict an attractive scene or landmark that we found to be representative
of each state.

16. Why use the Statue of Liberty or the Washington Monument on the cards?
We tried to pick a symbol that we felt represented the country, and the Statue of
Liberty and the Washington Monument are universally recognized as American
icons.

17. How do you hope to impact Doral’s market share through this program?
We don’t speculate on specific market share projections. This is just one more way
for Doral to give its smokers more value for their money.

18. How do you know Doral smokers are interested in card collecting?
We found that there is a high correlation between Doral smokers and collectors. A
national survey demonstrated that nearly one-half of Doral smokers collect as a
hobby.

19, Is it possible that some of these cards could end up in youths’ hands?
The tobacco cards in the Celebrate America Collectibles program depict landmarks of
the American scene and are designed for and distributed to adult smokers. They
feature photos and information important to the heritage and culture of American
history. In addition, the cards do not bear the Doral brand name or any cigarette
advertising.
(Only if asked about 800 number)
All calls are limited to adult smokers age 21 and older. When a phone representative
receives a call, age and smoker status is always asked. If either of these two is found
negative — the caller is under 21 or a non-smoker — then the call will be terminated.
Doral does not market to anyone under age 21, nor does it market to non-smokers.

20. Does this program comply with the MSA?
Yes, The MSA restricts distribution of merchandise that bears a cigarette brand name,
but these collector cards do not bear a cigarette brand name.

21. How many cards did you produce?
This information is confidential. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company does not discuss
the scope of any marketing programs, for proprietary reasons. But, there will be a
national distribution of these cards and a sufficient quantity to allow interested adult
smokers the opportunity to collect a full set.

2801 6ece¢sS