the previous studies indicate that the receptor for HCV-OC43 is not the
carcinoembryonic antigen or aminopeptidase N (CD13). HCV-OC43 is antigenically
distinct from the other human virus, 229E and, like BCV, expresses the HE. We are
particularly interested in those viruses that express HE since data suggests that this
protein may be responsible for expanded tropism to neurons in animals.

The long term objective of our proposal is to increase our understanding of
coronaviruses in human disease(s). They are common respiratory viruses causing
approximately 20-25% of the upper respiratory infections in humans. We clearly do
not have a full understanding of their impact on human health. Despite recent data on
receptors for several of these viruses, we are still lacking basic information regarding
the mechanism by which HCV-OC43 infects cells. We know little about how they
cause disease or what determines host and tissue specificity. Our studies are designed
to ask several of these basic questions. It is important to identify the receptor at the
point of initial infection in humans and begin asking questions concerning the spread of
these viruses to the CNS.

Specific Aims
1. Identify the receptor(s) used by HCV-OC43 on both RD and HRT cells.

2. Determine if the receptor previously identified for 229E on cultured cell lines is
also the receptor on primary human nasal epithelial cells and identify the receptor
for HCV-OC43 on these cells.

3. Initiate animal studies with these two viruses to determine the route of spread
from the primary site of infection (nasal epithelia) to the brain and determine if
HE is responsible for expanded tropism to neurons.

Preliminary Studies

Preliminary data in our lab indicates that the RD line of human rhabdomyosarcoma
cells can be infected with both HCV-OC43 and 229E; whereas, a human ileocecal
adenocarcinoma line, HCT-8 (identical to the HRT-18 line) can not be infected with
229E. Our data also suggests that HCV-OC43 may interact with a second receptor.
We currently have experiments in progress to determine if NeuS,9Ac9 serves as a
receptor determinant for this virus and if a specific second receptor is involved.
Antibodies against CD13 are being used to determine if we can block the infection of
229E.

Proposed Studies

Our present working hypothesis is that a second receptor exists for HCV-OC43. We
propose to identify this receptor. One receptor determinant is most likely Neu5,9Ac9;
however, a candidate second receptor is not known. We will first complete our