1) Synopsis of Current Research:
There are many drugs of abuse, each of which has a distinctive pharmacology. For example,

stimulant drugs (e.g., amphetamine and caffeine) and depressant drugs (e.g., alcohol and
barbiturates) differ in their subjective effects, but both types of drugs are abused. It has been
demonstrated in animal studies that certain brain areas play relatively more important roles in the
development and maintenance of behaviors related to the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse.
Two important pathways are the mesolimbic and mesocortical dopamine pathways, which emerge
from the ventral tegmental area of Tsai (VTA). Projection of the neurons of the VTA to the nucleus
accumbens (mesolimbic) and to the prefrontal cortex (mesocoitical) appear to be important for the
expression of the rewarding properties of a wide variety of drugs of abuse. Most drugs of abuse
increase neurotransmission through the mesolimbic-mesocortical sytems, either by increasing activity
of VTA neurons (e.g., nicotine, opiates, ethanol) or by augmenting the release of dopamine in the
terminal areas (e.g., cocaine and amphetamine). Because the VTA is one important area for the
mediation of drug-induced reward, the study of how various abused substances affect neurons of
the VTA is a critical for the treatment of addiction.

The overall goal of my research is to develop a better understanding of the physiology and
pharmacology of central reward systems. In order to approach this goal, I have developed a brain
slice preparation of the VTA suitable for intra- and extracellular recording. Putative dopamine-
containing neurons of the mesencephalon have been well characterized electrophysiologically in
vivo; neurons in the brain slice appear similar to neurons studied in vivo. VTA neurons fire
spontaneously in a slow (0.5 - 5 Hz), regular pattern. We have examined the effects of several drugs
of abuse on this spontaneous activity. Among the agents we have examined are cocaine (Brodie
and Dunwiddie, 1990) and ethyl alcohol (Brodie, et al., 1990). We are continuing our study of
ethanol, by using intracellular recording in an attempt to determine the mechanism of action of
ethanol-induced excitation of VTA neurons. Ethanol appears to cause a slight depolarization, a
decrease in the action potential amplitude, and a decrease in the amplitude of the
afterhyperpolarization (Brodie and Shefner, 1989). Further experiments are planned to determine
whether any of these effects underlies the ethanol-induced excitation of VIA neurons.

We have also investigated the effects of nicotine on the spontaneous activity of VTA neurons
(Brodie, 1991). Nicotine excites VTA neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. VTA neurons
possess an EC50 for nicotine-induced excitation of about 250 nM; therefore, VIA neurons are more
sensitive to the excitatory effects of nicotine than many other central neurons. Furthermore, little
desensitization to the effects of nicotine are seen at lower concentrations (less than 1 pM) (Brodie,
1991). The response of VTA neurons to nicotine is blocked by hexamethonium or mecamylamine.
VTA neurons also possess pirenzepine-sensitive muscarinic cholinergic receptors (Brodie and
Mueller, 1988; Lacey, et al, 1988), so studies of nicotinic cholinergic receptors must be performed
with specific nicotinic agonists, and/or in the presence of muscarinic cholinergic antagonists. With
our preparation, a full range of concentrations of nicotine can be applied to the same VTA neuron,
which would permit a more precise characterization of the specific receptor subtype involved in
mediating nicotine-induced excitation of VTA neurons.

2) Research Plan and Goals of Proposed Research
Molecular biologists have identified a number of different subtypes of the nicotinic

cholinergic receptor. It is known that the nicotinic cholinergic receptor is a pentamer formed from
4 subunits: 2 « subunits, and one each of B, y (or e) and 8. Recent studies from a number of
laboratories indicate that pharmacological specificity is conferred by the « and B subunits. Five
forms of the « subunit («2 - #6) and four forms of the B subunit (B2 - 65) are found in rat brain.
Different combinations of the various forms of these subunits constitute functionally different

1