reward pathway. This cell line could be used to screen potential nicotine substitutes, agents whith
could substitute for nicotine in "smokeless" cigarettes, for example, but which May not affect
nicotinic receptors in other parts of the body.

Why_use_a brain slice preparation? The brain slice methodology is useful for the
pharmacological and physiological study of specific brain areas, The advantages of the brain slice
preparation for electrophysiological study of pharmacology are numerous: known concentrations
of drugs can be applied to neurons of study; numerous drugs solutions can be applied and removed
from the medium while studying a single neuron. Unlike cells from primary culture, mature, fully
differentiated neurons can be studied in slices taken from adult rats. Using brain slices, a single
brain area can be studied in isolation from the bulk of the brain, unlike recordings made from
intact preparations. Furthermore, the brain tissue is not exposed to general anesthetic, so
complicating interactions between anesthetic and the drugs to be tested can be avoided by use of
brain slice preparations.

There are many advantages of brain slices over anatomical or molecular biological techniques (like
insitu hybridization) to identify the nicotinic receptor subtype present in the VTA. More important

than identifying the types of nicotinic receptors present in a given brain region is identifying the
functional nicotinic receptors present. The advantage the proposed studies offer over molecular
biological expression systems are: 1) the study of adult rat neurons which have developed normally,
2) the study of neurons which are thought to be involved in the rewarding actions of nicotine, and
3) the investigation of the functional identity of the specific subunits involved in excitation of
reward pathways.

How will this information be useful? The pleasurable effects of nicotine are thought to be
responsible for maintenance of smoking and related behaviors. The goal of this project is to better
understand the actions of nicotine on an important brain pathway involved in reward. By
understanding how nicotine affects reward pathways, we may be able to manipulate the action of
nicotine on reward systems, thereby controlling when and why people smoke. For example, a
compound which selectively activates the nicotinic receptor in the reward pathway, but which does
not affect nicotinic receptors in other parts of the body, might be useful in the development of
“smokeless” cigarettes. Information from this project should be valuable to health professionals as
well as others interested in the effects of smoking.

3) Anticipated duration of the outlined study: Three years,
4) Estimated cost for the first year: $59,791.
References:

Brodie, M.S., ADVANCES IN PHARMACOLOGICAL SCIENCES Effects of Nicotine on Biological
Systems, F. Adlkofer and K. Thurau (ed.), Birkhauser Verlag, 1991, pp. 373-377.

Brodie, M.S. and Dunwiddie, T.V., Naunyn-Schmiedeberg’s Archives of Pharmacology, 342: 660-
665, 1990.

Brodie, M.S. and Mueller, A.L., Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 14: 1327, 1988.

Brodie, M.S. and Shefner, S.A., Soc. Neurosci, Abstr. 15: 524, 1989,

Brodie, M.S., Shefner, S.A. and Dunwiddie, T.V., Brain Research 508: 65-69, 1990.

Calabresi, P., Lacey, M.G. and North, R.A., Brit. J, Pharmacol. 98: 135-140, 1989.

Lacey, M.G., Calabresi, P. and North, R.A., Soc. Neurosci. Abstr. 14: 1026, 1988.

Lutje, C.W. and Patrick, J., J. Neuroscience 11: 837-846, 1991.

Mulle, C., Vidal, C., Benoit, P. and Changeux, J.-P., J. Neuroscience 11: 2588-2597, 1991.

 

3