nicotinic receptor subtypes. It is important to identify the nicotinic receptor subtypes(s) involved
in the rewarding aspects of nicotine; substitutes for nicotine could then be developed which would
selectively mimic the effects of nicotine on the reward system, but which would not have deleterious
side effects. I propose to test the relative sensitivity of VTA neurons to a variety of nicotinic
agonists and to test the selectivity of nicotinic antagonists in the VITA. My aim is to use
pharmacological criteria to identify the nicotinic cholinergic receptor subtype(s) which mediate
nicotinic excitation of VTA neurons. In a recent study using methodologies of electrophysiology
and molecular biology, it was shown that oocytes injected with RNA coding for different
combinations of # and f subunits expressed receptors which differed in their response to a group
of nicotinic agonists (Luetje and Patrick, 1991). Nicotinic receptors composed of different a and
B subunits also differed in their affinity for nicotinic antagonists. Pharmacological characterization
of nicotinic receptors in specific brain areas, such as has been reported recently by Mulle, et al.
(1991), can identify possible differences which ultimately may be exploited for the development of
therapeutic agents. I plan to study the pharmacology of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the
ventral tegmental area and, by comparing this information to data in the literature, will use the
pharmacological profile of nicotinic receptors in this region to classify the subunit composition of
those receptors.

The brain slice preparation of the ventral tegmental area, though technically difficult, is a
standard procedure in my laboratory. The full methodology for our preparation of brain slices has
been published previously (Brodie and Dunwiddie, 1987; Mueller and Brodie, 1989). Briefly, the
brain is rapidly removed from the cranium of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, and a 400 pm
coronal section of the brain containing the VTA is prepared. This slice is mounted in a recording
chamber and covered with oxygenated artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF). The slice is maintained
at 37 °C,submerged in continuously flowing aCSF. Under these conditions, neurons in the slice
are spontaneously active, and long duration recordings of neuronal activity, both intracellular and
extracellular, can be made using glass micropipettes. Known concentrations of drugs are added to
the flowing aCSF using a calibrated syringe pump. We have shown that low concentrations of
nicotine produce increases in spontaneous activity (Brodie, 1991); others have shown that higher
concentrations of nicotine produce changes in membrane potential and membrane resistance
(Calabresi, et al, 1989). Pharmacological studies described below will employ extracellular and
intracellular recording to study the effects of a full range of concentrations of specific nicotinic
agonists and antagonists on membrane properties of VTA neurons.

Recent work in oocytes has shown that nicotinic receptors, which are composed of different
a and B subunits, respond differently to acetylcholine, nicotine, cytisine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-
piperazinium (DMPP). Luetje and Patrick developed a table of rank order potency of these four
agents, for each of the six combinations of the three a and two B subunits in an oocyte expression
system. I will develop concentration-response curves for these and other selective nicotinic agents
on VIA neurons, and compare the results to studies of nicotinic receptors in other preparations,
such as oocyte expression systems. In this way, I will begin to identify the subunits which might
comprise the receptor responsible for nicotinic excitation of VIA neurons. In addition to this, I will
test selective nicotinic antagonists for their ability to block nicotinic excitation of VIA neurons.
Among the antagonists to be tested will be d-tubocurarine, hexamethonium, mecamylamine,
neuronal bungarotoxin, and dihydro-B-erythroidine. Careful studies will be performed in order to
determine the IC50 for these antagonists. Schild analysis will be performed with antagonists like
hexamethonium to establish the affinity coefficient of this antagonist for the nicotinic receptor on
VTA neurons. These antagonist studies will further establish the identity of the nicotinic receptor
subtype(s) involved in the rewarding properties of nicotine. This information could be used to
develop a cell line, for example, which expresses a nicotinic receptor identical to that found in the

2