18789791 12:16 DUMC DEPT OF MICROBIOLOGY’ IMMUN @@5

7
De. IK , ‘S MAX E. GOTTESMAN #3280

Role of DNA binding proteins in gene expression

DNA exists in prokaryotic cells in compacted form, the result of
supercoiling and interaction with histone-like proteins. At least six
such DNA-binding proteins have been identified one of which, the £,
coli integration host factor (IHF), is of considerable interest
because it participates in diverse reactions such as site-specific
transposition and inversion recombination, phage DNA packaging, plasmid
and phage DNA replication, and positive and negative control of gene
expression. IIIF consists of two subunits, a and B, that are encoded by
the himA and himD gene, respectively. They resemble in sequence the
subunits of the HU protein (with similar functions). However, unlike HU,
IHF binds to a specific DNA sequence in the DNA minor groove, inducing a
sharp, stable bend.

Many genes in &. coli and its bacteriophages are regulated by
IHF. In particular, it interacts with the pL promoter of lambda.
Although one of the strongest promoters in vivo, pL has rather poor
homology to known bacterial promoters and binds RNP with low efficiency
in vitro. pl transcription is stimulated three~to~four-fold by
IHF, both in vivo and in vitro. IHF bends DNA at tandem
sites located upstream of pL; it also enhances formation of RNP-promoter
closed complexes. The applicant has now identified a second upstream
promoter, pl2, which is repressed by IHF. So the specific aims of this
application are, first, to extend our understanding of the role of IHF in
the control of promoter activity; second, to identify the functional
domains of IHF; and third, to isolate E. coli genes encoding novel
auxilliary DNA-binding proteins and to Study their function, and to
uncover additional E. coli genes regulated by IHF. He would also
like to extend these studies from E. coli to evolutionarily related
bacteria and to eukaryotic systems. Clearly all this is a huge
undertaking.

The background information already gathered on this system is
fascinating. For example, the pL2 promoter is only one-tenth as active
as pLl and is repressed by IHF; but mutations in pL1 that decrease pLi