1a@/ag/at 1e:197 DUMC DEPT OF MICROBIOLOGY” IMMUN 206

transcription increase pL2 transcription and enhance the response of pL
to activation by ur. Further, pll is strongly stimulated by DNA
supercoiling and is still further activated by IHF, which increases its
affinity for RNP. In addition, HU and IHF function as auxiliary proteins
in the cleavage of lambda cohesive ends, perhaps by establishing the
higher ordered DNA-protein structure at cos that is the substrate for the
lambda terminase.

The first specific project envisaged by the applicant is to study
the activation of pL by IHF; he suggests that IHF acts by occluding pL2,
and he proposes to confirm this. This will include mutating the IHF
subunits as well as both promoters, and studying the interaction of RNP
with these promoters, both normal and mutated, in the presence and
absence of normal and mutated IHF. This system will also serve as a
system to study the analogous eukaryotic factors. Second, the applicant
proposes to identify and characterize E. coli promoters regulated
by IHF; the levels of many proteins change when IHF is mutated. He
proposes to generate constructs that will permit selection of genes
regulated by IHF. Third, he proposes to isolate and characterize novel
bacterial and eukaryotic genes belonging or related to the HU/IHF
superfamily. In other words, he will look for IHF/HU complementing
genes. Systems in which to test this are readily devised. Fourth, as a
long-term goal, he will search for IHF or HU-like functions in
eukaryotes. Genomic and cDNA libraries from yeast and mice will be used
which will be plated on HIF(-)-HU(~) hosts. Alternatively, cellular
extracts will be tested for proteins capable of DNA binding and DNA
retardation by gel shift assays.

Max Gottesman is the 56-year-old Director of the Institute for
Cancer Research at Columbia University. He cbtained his M.D. in 1960 and
his Ph.D. in 1965. From 1970-85 he was Head of the Biochemical Genetics
Section of NCI. His research credentials are impeccable. He is very
well funded from the NCI and the NIH; he has almost $400,000 per year.

I think that this is an excellent application and in the ordinary
course of events I would love to see it funded. However, I have two
serious reservations. First, Gottesman has an important administrative
position, namely, Director of a Cancer Center. He is already funded to
the tune of almost $400,000 per year. I question whether he can