° 875 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois 60611, 312-943-9400

AR se
- : : ah \ Affiliates: Amsterdam - Honeluty - london - Montreo}

t ? sf Paris » Rome + SGo Paulo - Sydney - Tokyo - Toronto
Re oa
YP OsTt-KRHRYHS+-GARDNER INC

r 4 ADVERTISING

 

January 15, 1975

MR. HUGH BROOKS

RE: PETERSON PUBLISHING

Dear Hugh:

As you know, Peterson Publishing has come to us with a proposal
regarding back covers in Motor Trend.

We withdrew from Motor Trend about a month ago. The reason for
BROWN & WILLIAMSON's withdrawal from Motor Trend was that the
corporation had no back cover franchises. Related to our not
having back cover franchises, we felt that the publication's
back-up policy of requiring only one inside page for each back
cover may be to the detriment of BROWN & WILLIAMSON.

Motor Trend is the most efficient measured magazine for both
KOOL and VICEROY. If it were not for our dispute with the pub-
lication regarding back cover positions for B&W, we certainly
would not have withdrawn from the publication.

The publication has offered us one back cover in 1974 (July is-
sue). In addition, they have offered first option on another
back cover. The Representative (Mr. Dick Opfer) also has indica-
ted that he will try to secure more back covers. The July back
cover would be in trade for one of our existing inside covers.

At the time we exercise the option on the additional back cover,
it would be in trade for one of our existing inside covers. Un-=-
til we exercise that option, we do not have to give up the inside
covers. .

 

_ a

Although this offer from Motor Trend does not address itself to
the publication's back-up policy, Mr. Opfer has indicated that

the back-up policy is due for further examination by Peterson
management. However, he feels it is quite unlikely that a change
in the back-up policy would be implemented in the very near future.

The net result of the various meetings with Peterson is that BROWN
& WILLIAMSON has gained one back cover franchise and a first option
on another back cover franchise. We believe it is reasonable to
seek a little more.

€9PST0099

XA
RECYCLED CZ, CESPAPER

 

660015463
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE