Philip Morris USA CONFIDENTIAL
PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Richmond, Virginia

To: D. Self Date: June 2, 2000

From: M. Chang we-

Subject: May 2000 Monthly Summary, C2R200

GROUP NAME: Materials and Elemental Analysis Group

Activity Types of Samples Analytical Number | Number

or activities Techniques | of of
Samples | Analyses

PO0165 Method Method development for collection of CVAAS
Application mercury using Au-Pt trap for mainstream

smoke.

 

 

C2R200 AMA Activities | Miscellaneous Activities

PO0165 Method Application

The analytical precision curve for the two-stage gold amalgamation system was further studied with a
concentration range from 0.1 ng up to 10 ng of Hg. As expected, the precision at the low concentration
‘was not as good as at the high concentration, 5.9 % RSD for 0.1 ng Hg verse 0.3 % RSD for 10 ng Hg.
The individual trap efficiency of 11 Au-Pt traps was studied by the purge-and-trap of 5 ng of Hg standard.
The maximum difference was found being less than 1% that indicates the precise set-up for the two stage
gold amalgamation system.

The trap efficiency of Au-Pt gauze was studied by connecting two Au-Pt traps in serial and the mercury
amount was analyzed independently. The amount of mercury breakthrough, based on the second Au-Pt
trap, was found to be 1% for 5 ng of Hg and 1.5% for 10 ng of Hg.

The instrament LOD, 0.011 ng, was determined based on 10 replicates of purge and trap of reagent blanks.
The method LOD, 0.1 ng, was also determined based on 10 replicates of smoking blanks.

3 ng of Hg was spiked onto the Au trap before smoking the 1R4F cigarette for method accuracy study.
Only 60% recovery of Hg was recovered, which can not justify the performance of gold trap, Two reasons
for this poor recovery, one is that the amount of Au was not enough to trap both mercury and volatile
organic vapor passing through electrostatic precipitation, and the other is the deactivation of the Au trap
caused by some organic vapor. To solve this problem, a catalyst converter is going to be placed before
gold trap to decompose organic vapor before the gas phase of smoke entering the Au trap.

gergoebeso7

DOC CODE: P0622