“. Subject: .Nitrate Reduction in BL

ta

From: “K. S. Burns . os '

‘Wher ‘ parallel to: the: present equipment. This was considered desirable: since this

PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

‘to: «Dr. W. F. Gannon pate: Februany 22, 1978

A meeting was held at R&D on February. 10 to review the status of various
process development programs related to the above subject and to try to firm
up: our future plans in this area. Those: in. attendance were:

H. G. Burnley’ C. R. Hayward
K. S. Burns D. J. Keliton

W. A. Farone N. R. Rowe

W. F. Gannon W. R. Wilkinson

G. Gellatly

After: extensive discussion on a number of relevant subjects, the following
course of action was agreed upon: ‘ .

1. Manufacturing Engineering will sample and characterize the

various effluent. streams from the BL. Plant containing significant levels

of nitrate: and determine which streams must be treated (by some presently
‘ undefined method) to meet future EPA’ specifications.

: 2. In.one initial trial, Dr. Farone and his. staff have shown that
reduction of the nitrate in the BL effluent by a microbiological process is
feasible. Under the current. schedule, they. would expect to have a pilot. plant
for this process. operating in about 12 months. Optimization studies using the
specific effluents to be treated! could! require another 3-6 months after the
Pilot plant is operational.

3. After reviewing the burley stem pressing process that R&D has
4 proposed to replace the current washing/drying operation, it. was decided that
Yes - a better assessment of the potentiall energy savings from such a process was
necessary. Manufacturing Engineering: agreed to carry out sucha study.

They: (Manufacturing Engineering) also agreed to determine if
” adequate space was available at the BL Plant to install the: pressing: system

process is difficult to pilot completely.

4. If the findings in #3 are favorable, R&D will conduct a series
n of trials using the Reneburg presses in the RL Pilot Plant. to. determine. if
. the many different types. of stems processedi at the BL Plant can be dewatened
ph to a reasonably constant average OV. (The presses recommended by R&D are
made by Bauer Company and are more of a precision made piece of equipment that
should give: less moisture variation than the Reneburg. Unfortunately, however,
Bauer does not have a pilot unit that we can buy or rent.)

hwore else has perthire?