C

wile ",
claim does not

"Among criticisms made by scientists of this: study are:

A mere numerical association such as Drs, Hammond and Horn
establish any cause and effect relationship.

"2. The survey is. limited to smoking habits and therefore does
not rule out any number of possible other factors in present-day living
that may influence death rates...

"3,

tional population.

"he

The survey is shown to be non-representative of the na-

The small number of deaths from lung cancer --: at most )

285 out of 6,105 deaths -- makes questionable any conclusions: drawn, es-
pecially since: the sampling methods of the survey are not statistically

sound.

"Statistical studies of this nature can at best indicate areas

that require study.

This has been dome, and scientists devoted to such

study have recently reported their inability to identify any cancer-
causing substance in tobacco: smoke derivatives...

"It woulid be tragic if an over-publicized allegation that: lacks
scientific support were to divert and. impede public or private support: of
sound research in such an important field of health."

OLBS1E6

 

Cancer Scare, Production Increase

Reduce Domestic Cigarette Sales

Af evelopment within the Unit.
ed States which. directly affects
the sais of our tobacca: this: year
is mainly the further decline in
the: domestic. consumption of cig-
@rettes due to the lung cancer
@care and other adverse factors
major tehacro companies. have
announced

Tobacco Cammittee chairman,

¥E. Kontz Bennett discussing. out-
i: for the 1955 auction here: and:

 

cigarettks. compared with 223 bil:
Vion in 1953.

RESEARCH COMMITTEE

The. Tobaceo Industry Research
Committee was organized tn Jan-
‘wary 1954 for the purpose of! spen-
soring independent research. into
tobacco uss and health,

The Committee was fortunate in:
being able: to: get a group of emi-
nent scientists. whose competence
ig seturely. established in. their re-
spective fields: to serve: as. mem-

bers of a Scientific Advisory
Board; This Board determines the
Scope andi direction. of the: re-
search. program, solicits and. re-
views réquests far resarch granta
from universities, hospitals, and
other recognized’ research organ-
izations. The Board itself does not
undertake research although Indi-
vidual members: may head  pro-
jects in the institutions. with
which they are: affiliated.

This Scientific: Advisory: Board
decided. that the objectives of the
Committee could best be reached
by: concentrating, the investiga-
tions in: the following: three areas:

‘ The physical and chemical com-
Position: of tebacco and saccom-
panying, products, such as. cig.
arette papers and additives, This
cavers the preparation, frection-
ation and analysis. of tobacco and
of added substances,

Tisaue changes’ in humana as
well as.in animals; in) normal life
or under laboratory: conditions,
subjected to. various types, dura-
tion. and! intensity. of, exposure to
various: tobaccos and derivatives,

and other: potential irritants. Tis?
aues of special! Interest. are those
of. the mouth, lungs, glands, heart
and other organs of subjects: of
various ages, sex and. atrains,

Smoking and other tobacco: ha-
hits, and the emotional andi phy-
sical makeup of smokers, with re-
spect to establishment, duration:
and intensity of tobacco use, and.
correlation of these: data with: me-
tabolic, glandular and nervous
types under various: degrees. ofi
stress and challenge.

it is recognized that outstanding.
work: Has heen. done and is being,
done here and abrosd in these
fields: The Scientific Advisory
Board plans to: avoid repeating,
work that: has produced sctentifi-.
cally acceptabla results, Where re:
sults have been. inconclusive or:
questionable from. a. actenti-
fic: standpoint, however, . further
research Will be: initiated,

The: total! annual budget of the
Tobacro Industry Research Com.
mittee ia slightly In. excess of one
Million. dotlars, Research grants
have already been made to: pev-
eral institutions. totaling mere

Most of the funds for this. wor
: being contributed’ by. the maje
vigarette manufacturing’ compar.
jes. Tobacco Associates and. mor
of the: other producers: and Ware
house organizations in the: cl
arette: tobaceo: producing state

are making contributions.

JOURNAL HERALD
Waycross, Ga.
July, 12,, 1995

YIsTseTTo