wownese CONFERENCE REPORT
P.O. Box 5627
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27113
(919) 765-3630
cuENE RIR PLE: San Diego Surveys DATE: 3 11/12/91
PONE ET Dae chapman SER Kelly
HAYMES R.F. Graham S.A. McLenaghan
aurarg J.L. McCabe. - S.W. Tucker
W.R. Morgan
CJ. Patti
D.L. Walter
CA Ri!

Client, Agency and CAMEL Brand attended 6 Focus Group sessions on March 11 and
March 12,
1991. The following Conference Report serves only as a top line of the findings.

The 3 sessions on March 11 were comprised of male Marlboro smokers age 18-34. The 3
sessions on March 12 consisted of 1 group of Marlboro smokers, 2 groups of CAMEL
smokers. All attendees had attended at least 1 sporting event in the last 18 months. Each
group was exposed to 4 CAMEL Brand executions, 4 existing Sports Marketing ads, 9 comps
for proposed Sports Marketing advertising, a sports themed Smooth Magazine and 4
CAMEL sports characters. Although the opinions and overall mindset of the groups were
diverse, several creative guidelines were established for CAMEL Sports Marketing
executions:

* Realism is a key ingredient in all concepts accepted by the groups - the vehicles and the
placement of them in the arena must be believable and relevant. (bike flying out of the
stadium) In addition, Joe must be in a position that is viewed as being conceivable
(wouldn't be on hay bales and other unattainable locations).

Joe should be involved/interact and clearly exhibit interest in the sports depicted (not
looking at the action on hay bale execution and the GT sky box comps).

Joe must be relatable, accessible and one of us - yet be "special." He is viewed as a notch

‘ above with the right connections yet not an authority figure or a yuppie suit guy (strong |
playback on pink jacket, daintily holding pennant rope, holding restricted sawhorse
etc.)

6899 TS9TS

‘Creative executions should consider the strong opinions elicited regarding coloration
*- and the consumers dissemination process. Hot purples and pinks and upscale clothing
ahd images should trigger a red flag. Each group had very strong and consistent
playback regarding Miami Vice look, yuppie clothes, vehicle paint schemes etc.)