C

WORLD-TELEGRAM AND SUN ;
New York, New York
December 14, 1964

T6LOSIS00T

Page 33

ohns Hopkins Develops
Lung Cancer Test

7 f the damace. Over the
yw “De meter records the resistance The body's sympathetic nervture o ne
By EDWARD EDELSON encountered by the flow of yous system, which regulates‘\ears, Richter and a co-work

Of the World-Telegram staff

A quick and easy way of di-
agnosing a number of diseases,
including some cases of unde
tected Jung cancer, has bean
develaped at the Johns Hop-

ing of the human body.

current, and the technician the skin's response to stimulntor, Dr. James F, Fries, have

maps the pattern on a draw also controls the skin's resist-Iderevmined the patterns fitting
the current. - _

mt : sympathetic nerve is: In lung cancer, for exam

» oo four different re
thap damaged, compressed or cut,{ple, there are
main the body is teten to skin’ resistance rises. Theisistance prticrns. each reflect

Imany diseases.

kins University School of Med- Pens in the body Is referred to amount of the increase and its}ing the location of a cancer

{eine in Baltimore. the skin,” sald Dr. Curt P,

The test can be performed } me
In a few minutes by a techni: Img on the technique for 20

cian using equipment that years. ‘A number of changes
costs only $120. He simply in internal organs can be de-
Tuns a small metal wheel over tected this way. It is particu.
prescribed areas of the pa, larly useful in some vascular
tlent's skin. diseases (diseases of the circu-

The wheel is an electrode, Jatory system).”
attached to two small batter. — What the technician records

. her electrode is at. is the resistance oC the skin
Shed ne the patient’s leg. A lone to the electric current.

WALL STREET JOURNAL
New York, New York
December 7, 1964

w Data on Cigaret Smoking Confirm
indings of Triple Risk of Heart Attacks

 

Data for Surgeon General
Aya Warr Staeer JOUANAL Stag Reporter

NEW YORK—New data from two impor. “Zt 4s obvious that cigaret smokers dle at
- i 0.
tant studies confirmed earlier findings that® rate much higher than noncigaret sm: 1:

with much of the excess rate altributable to
Bave about three tines a eeoaee a ceed mpocardalIfarcuon (hear alach the ace

heart attack than nonsmokers, former smok- entats aid reports from Framingham and Al-

ers and pipe and cigar users. Dany constituted important evidence that was
Physicians stressed, however, that the MAM ronsidered by the Surgeon General's Advisory

ner in which cigaret smoking tmpairs longevi-a mittee on Smoking and Health. The Suc-

ty temasns unexplained, : . geon General’s panel found a “significant re-
“The heaviest cigaret smokers experience fationship” between cigaret smoking, incidence

a hazard three times that of Tongmokers.” ré-of heart. attacks and sudden death, especially

starchers trom the Albany, N.Y. Medical Col-in middle-aged men.

lege, the National Heart Institute and the Pub- ‘The second study particularly investigated

He Health Service reported in the current Jour-2,084 men in the combined Albany-Framing-

nal of the American Medical Association. “¥or-ham group originally between 40 and 49 years

mer ciaret and pipe and cigar smokers are atold and free of disease when the triala began.

about the same msk as nonamokers.”’ Investigators found = heart attack rata of 2.8
The new data was contained In « second re-.

part on continuing studies that have been un-

aertaken at Framingham, Muss., and Albany.

Mhystcfana studied 2.282 men In Framingham

fur 10 years and 1,838 men for & years in Al-

hany, They said the relationship between the

tohacco habit and coronary heart disease in

‘he twa groups of middle-aged men was ‘‘vir-

tually identical” with results reported three

rears ago,

Richter, who has been work: nature offer clues to the na-jand its colonies.

per thousand among nonsmokers and 9 per
thousand for cigaret users, Examining the
death rate for the two groups, the medical
researchers found the rate for nonsmokers at
2 per thousand and for smokers at 6.3 per
thousand. ,

Physicians found that the risk of death
from all causes, from heart disease and the
development of heart attacks is “consistently
higher” tn cigaret smokers than in nronsmok-
ers, regardiess of whether the subjects are
above or below the median for blood pressure,
cholesterni or both. Cholesterol is a tatty sub-
stance in the blood. Some doctors believe x
bulldup of such fats leads to heart disease,
Analysis o& Those Who Quit ,

“In general, the risk for smokers is always
greater, and in almost every instance at least
twice as grent as that for nonsmokers,’" the
reasarchers reported.

Unlike some earlier researchers, the AJ.
bany and Framingham aclentists found that
stopping smoking lowers risk to virtually that
of & person who never smoked at al. Other
investigators in different teats have reported
that the health risk for Persons who did smoke
but have quit is intermediate between cons
Unuing smokers and those who never smoked.

“Tha Inference that stopping cigaret smok.
ing has @ beneficial effect in preventing or de.
laying the onset of the lethal manifestautona
of coronary heart disease appears warranted,”
the Framingham end Albany doctors said,

The Framingham atudy was established in
1849 by the U.3. Public Health Service and the
Albany experiment by the New York State De.
Partment of Health in 1952. Each subject re
celved a complete physical examination, chest
Xray, electrocardiogram and other laboratory
tests before his part fn the sonunuing investi.
gation began.

\T6Z0STSOOT