o>

UNIVERSITY of LONDON

 

Royal Postgraduate Medical School

Hammersmith Hospital, Du Cane Road, London Wi2 OHS
Department of Histochemistry

Tel, 01-743 2030 Ext Direct line: 01-740

18th June, 1987

Dr. D.H. Ford

The Council for Tobacco Research
900 Third Avenue

New York, N.Y. 10022

U.S.A.

 

3231

 

Dear Don:

It was lovely to talk to you on the phone. As I have said to you my outlook of
life is now different. May I please request an extension without further funding
of our grant entitled “Investigation into the Role of Regulatory Peptides in Human
Lung Disease" Grant No. 1438A, which we have held jointly with Steve Bloom for the
past years. The reason is the that we have now established a very strong link
with our colleague surgeons, in particular Professor Magdi Yacoub from Harefield
Hospital, and Mr. John Wallwork from Papworth Hospital, both groups of which are
involved in heart lung transplants.

We have done sufficient pilot experiments to be able to say that a number of novel
techniques are now established in our Unit, over and above biochemical numerical
estimation and chemical characterisation of extractable peptides, and their
immunocytochemical localisation in tissue sections. These include, tn vitro
autoradiography for the mapping and characterisation of binding sites and Tn situ
hybridisation/Nothern blot analysis for the study of the mRNA directing
neuropeptide/endocrine peptide synthesis. These techniques now work very well in
human tissue and we have established a baseline to investigate pathology. Unlike
earlier days when availability of human diseased lung and heart tissue was
difficult, now we have increased use of surgical transplantation technology. This
material is plentiful and fully available. The potential of investigating
diseased state in human applying modern technology is therefore with us and we
would very much like to «rite up an exciting extension grant application to the
best of our abilities and hence our delay. These techniques could open up a new
field of investigative pathology.

I very much hope this will not cause too much inconvenience to the Council for
Tobacco Research and I look forward to hearing from you.

Best personal regards,

Julia M. Polak, DSc MD FRCPath.
Professor of Endocrine Pathology

cc: Professor S.R. Bloom

50156846
50156846