Molecular mechanism of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and TNF receptors involvement in autoimmunity.

Project Description

We propose to study the regulatory role of TNF and its two receptors, TNFR-1 and TNFR-2, and the
mechanism of the involvement of this cytokine in the pathogenesis and genetic predisposition to
autoimmune disease.

Systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE), a prototypical human autoimmune disease, is a disorder of
generalized autoimmunity characterized by multi-system organ involvement and autoantibodies against
nuclear, cytoplasmic and cell surface antigens. The mechanism(s) responsible for the breakdown of
tolerance for these self antigens are unknown. In scarch for mechanisms responsible for immune
dysregulation in SLE, cytokines have received increasing attention. One particular cytokine, TNF-o has an
important protective role under the appropriate conditions in a mouse model of SLE, the (NZBxNZW)F1
mice.

The TNF genes, which include the TNFa, LTa, and the recently cloned LTB genes, are unique among
all known cytokines and growth factors in that they are the only cytokine genes located within the central
portion of the Major Histocompatability Complex (MHC). Because of TNF's location, and because many
of its potential biological activities are related to immunoregulation and inflammation, the possibility that an
"abnormal" TNF gene could be involved in autoimmune diseascs was tested experimentally. | have shown
that activated peritoneal macrophages from NZW mice produce 5- to 10-fold lower levels of TNFa. than
non-autoimmune strains. Furthermore, this low TNF production was associated with a unique
polymorphism in a simple tandem repeat sequence identified within the promoter region of TNFa. Most
importantly, treatment of NZBxNZW mice with recombinant TNFo. caused a very significant reduction in
the incidence of nephritis and other autoimmune disease parameters in the treated mice.

Further studies have revealed that: (1) TNF production is reduced also in a subset of patients with
lupus, similarly to the (NZBxNZW)F1 mice that have an inherited lupus-like autoimmune diseasc. (2)
Lupus patients with low TNF inducibility have a 3-5 fold increase in nephritis incidence; (3) In classical
backcross experiments we showed that low TNF production in the NZW mouse is linked to the MHC,

In search of the mechanism of low TNF production in the lupus mouse, we have cloned and
sequenced the 5’ regulatory regions from a total of 12 high- and low-TNF producer autoimmune and
normal mouse strains as well as the 3'UTR of the TNF gene, from the stop codon at position 6215-6217
downstream (approximately 1.0 kb), in several strains. Several single bp mutations in the 5’region and
nine sites were found to be associated with mutational events in the 3°UTR. The most interesting
mutations were in the 3°UTR: a 5 base GACAC insertion at position 6381 and a 3 bp insertion of GAT,
which disrupts the first AU-motif of TNFa. in the NZW mouse. To probe the functional relevance of the
5' regulatory regions and the 3'UTR mutations in the TNF gene, we have made constructs in which 5’
TNF promoter fragments from the low-TNF producer NZW mouse or from the high-TNF producer SWR
mouse were linked to the luciferase reporter gene followed by 3'UTR sequences from the NZW mouse,
or 3'UTR sequences from the non mutated SWR strain. The different constructs were transiently
expressed in the RAW 264 cell line, activated with LPS and IFNy, and luciferase activity measured.
Results published recently (J. Immunol. article enclosed) suggest that mutations in the 3’ untranslated
region of the TNF gene may be primarily responsible for the genetic defect in NZW mice. It is noteworthy
that, while luciferase activities are significantly reduced in the constructs with the 3'UTR originating from
the NZW mouse, the level of luciferase mRNA is not affected suggesting that this is a post-transcriptional
effect.

As a first step in investigating the regulatory mechanisms of TNF and their distinct signal transduction via
each receptor, we considered isolation and characterization of the mouse receptors 10 be important. The
cloning and sequencing of the TNF-R1 was recently completed and published.

We also cloned the mouse TNF-R2 and recently completed the sequence of the gene. We arc now in a
strong position to be able to directly analyze and fully characterize the promoter of TNFR-2 in comparison
with the promoter of TNFR-1. In parallel with cloning of the promoters of the receptors for regulatory
studies, we have done regulatory experiments comparing the expression of the two TNF receptors using

50726195