RNAsc protection assays. Our preliminary results suggest that TNFR-2 is the main TNF receptor on
lymphocytic cells and the two TNF receptors are regulated independently.
Based on these data, we propose the following hypotheses:

1. The (NZBxNZW) mouse model of SLE, is characterized by a genetic deficiency in TNF production
inherited by the NZW parental mouse strain. Mutations in the regulatory regions of the TNF gene itself
may form the underlying molecular basis for the deficiency in TNF production. Specific aim | and 2 will
test this hypothesis.

2. TNFR-2 and not the TNFR-1 is the major TNF receptor on immune cells and it is much lighter
regulated than TNFR-1, Therefore we suggest that TNFR-2 is responsible to carry out the protective effect
of TNF in lupus mice. Specific aims 3 and 4 wiil test this hypothesis.

The specific aims are:

1. To provide a molecular basis for the low TNF production in NZW mice by characterizing the regulatory
role of the 3'-untranslated sequences and 5'-flanking sequences of the TNF-a gene. To this end, sitc-
directed mutagenesis will be performed to preciscly delincate the role of these mutations using transicnt
expression experiments with the luciferase reporter system.

2. To test whether there are RNA-binding proteins specific to the regions of the 3';UTR of TNF-o in
which mutations were identified in NZW mice. If so, is the binding profile different in the mutated 3'UTR
from the non-mutated 3°UTR sequence. To accomplish this we will use gel-shift assays to identify and
characterize RNA-protein interactions.

3. To provide further evidence that the TNFR-2 is under tight regulation in immune cells while TNFR-1 is
constitutively expressed in these cells, and to test whether the expression of the TNF receptors in
lymphocytic cells is different between lupus and normal mice. These studies build on our successful
completion of the sequencing of the 5' regulatory regions of both TNF receptors in the mouse.

4, To determine which of the two TNF receptors is responsible to carry out the protective cffects of TNF
in lupus mice. To accomplish this we will cross the TNFR-1 deficient and TNFR-2 knockout mice onto
B/W background and bred these mice to homozygosity. We will test the capability of TNF to block disease
in these TNFR deficient lupus mice. If our hypothesis is correct TNF will not be able to induce protection
in lupus mice deficient in TNFR-2 only.

Experimental design:

The purpose of the studies in specific aim 1 is to gain an understanding of the functional effects of a TNF
gene containing mutations in the 3'UTR and are designed to answer the following questions:

1. What is the functional consequence of the disruption of the first AU motif within the 3'UTR of
TNF by the 3 base pair GAT?

To this cnd, molecular constructs in which the firefly luciferase coding sequence is followed by stepwise
segments of the NZW 3'-untranslated region will be used in transient transfection experiments. Transicntly
transfected cells will be activated with LPS or LPS + IFNy. We will introduce the GAT sequence into the
first AU motif of the SWR 3'UTR, and reverse the AU of the NZW mouse by deleting the GAT from its
AU sequence.

2. What is the role of the 5 base (GACAC) insertion in the 3'UTR of TNF?

To this end, site-directed mutagenesis will be performed to precisely delineate the role of this element in
the regulation of TNF. Using transient expression experiment as above we will test whether both the Sbp
and the AU mutations are necessary for inducing the 3'UTR effect. If mutation in the 5bp will result in
significant difference in luciferase production, the reverse experiment of the insertion of the 5bp into the
respective site in the SWR 3'UTR will evaluated..

3. fs the posttranscriptional inhibition induced by the 3'UTR defect cell specific?

To this end, we will express the luciferase-TNF-3'UTR constructs in RAW 264 macrophage cell line; the
T68 T-cell hybridoma; the EL4 T-cell line; the B-cell line BALM-4; and the W138 fibroblast cell line. We
have chosen macrophages and T and B lymphocytes since thesc cell types are the major producers of this
cytokine under physiological conditions. The fibroblast cell line represents a control cell type that does not
produce TNF. ‘

bs

"650726196 —™”