4 What are the 5'UTR sequences needed for interaction with the 3'UTR sequences in regulating
TNF? Itis clear from our studies that 5'UTR sequences arc necessary for cooperation with the 3'UTR
for regulating TNF production. To identify the 5'UTR sequences needed, unidirectionally deleted
fragments of the TNF 5'UTR will be linked to luciferase, followed by 3'UTR scquences, and tested in
transient transfection experiments.

In the event that the above experiments show categorically that the 3'UTR mutations are of functional
importance in the low TNF phenotype in the NZW mouse, we will test whether there are RNA binding
proteins specific to the 3‘UTR region. Most specifically we are interested in the region that showed the 5
bp insertion and Adenosine-Uridine RNA Binding Proteins (AUBPs), which specifically bind to the AU-
rich sequence of the mouse TNFo. gene. For these experiments, two types of assays will be used: 1)
RNA-protein UV cross-linking assays and 2) gel-shift assays which have been used by several groups to
identify and characterize RNA-protein interactions.

To identify AUBPs that bind mouse TNF-AU, cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts will be prepared from
the RAW 264 cell line, as well as from purified peritoneal mouse macrophages, purified spleen T and B
lymphocytes of NZW mouse, and the non-autoimmunce strain SWR. The profile of RNA-binding proteins
will be analyzed in each cell extract using RNA gel-shift assay and the RNA-protein UV cross-linking
assay. We will compare the AU binding-protein profile in both the cytoplasmic and nuclear extracts.
Competition experiments with unlabeled RNA will be carried out to define the specificity of the RNA-
binding factors in our system. In such competition experiments, we will compare the ability of GAT-
disrupted AU-fragment with non-mutated TNF-AU fragment to block the binding of TNF-AUBP.

To accomplish specific aim 3 there will be the following steps:
1. Construct a serics of unidirectional deletion fragments of TNFR-2 S'UTR linked to the luciferase
reporter gene (similar to those that we have already constructed for TNFR- 1).
2. Transiently transfect these constructs into Raw 264, BALM-4, EL-4 and T68 cell lincs.
3. Compare the luciferase Icvels induced using TNFR-1 versus TNFR-2 promoter sequences.
4. Perform site-directed mutagenesis to preciscly delineate the cis-acting elements of interest, to confirm
and extend the deletion mutant experiments.
5. Compare differences in expression of TNFR-1 and TNFR-2 isolated lymphocytic cells isolated from
different compartments at the mRNA level, using RNAse protection assays, as well as at the protein level,
using flow cytometry analysis.
6. Correlate results obtained in the transient expression system with the results obtained in the cell culture
experiments.
Based on our preliminary studies, we expect to show conclusively that there are different patterns of
expression and regulation of the two TNF receptors. We expect to prove that TNF-R1 is constitutively
expressed, while TNF-R2 has very low or no expression in non-activated immune cells; it is the TNF-R2
which is under tight regulation.

For specific aim 4 we will take advantage of the existence of inbred lupus mice derived by selective
inbreeding of progeny of a cross between NZB and NZW designated as New Zealand Mix (NZM). The
strain NZM2410 which develops lupus similar to (NZBxNZW)F1 is available to us. We have also
available in our laboratory both the TNFR-1 and TNFR-2 deficient mice. We will therefore cross the
receptor deficient mice onto the NZM background and bred them to homozygosity and will test the
capability of recombinant TNF to block disease development.

I believe this is a very intriguing and exciting project proposal which has a genuine potential to
substantiate our understanding of the regulation of an extremely important cytokine-TNF in autoimmunity.
TNF has been shown to influence the immune system both in health and disease, and the understanding of
its regulation is fundamental to our understanding of the processes that this cytokine is involved in.

Furthermore, the accomplishments of the goals of this project have the potential to enhance our
understanding of post-transcriptional gene regulation in general.

50726197