Illinois -- John O'Connell and David Wilhelm have strong
relationships with the state AFL-CIO, Chicago central labor
council and other key state labor leaders. Wilhelm has done
extensive work with Illinois Rainbow Coalition and Illinois
Public Action Council which are supported by the Committee.

Indiana -- the Committee will have a new labor consultant on
the ground at the end of this month. We will need to jump
start activities in December and reach out to the state AFL-
cIo and key central bodies. The public sector labor
movement is in flux pending the outcome of several upcoming
employee representation elections.

Montana -- Committee supports the Montana Alliance for
Progressive Policy. Good relationship built with the state
labor movement as a result of the Committee's Initiative 115
efforts.

New Hampshire -- good relationship with the state AFL-CIO
and key labor leaders. Jim Tiernan and Committee
representatives will attempt to build a tax relationship off
of the IAQ relationships that have been developed.

New Jersey -- Committee supports New Jersey Citizen Action.
Key public employee unions such as CWA and AFSCME are
approachable. Johnny Brown will be helpful within the state
building trades.

New York -- activity will be coordinated through Jim
Featherstonhaugh and Norm Adler. Relationships have been
developed with the state AFL-CIO and the largest public
employee group CSEA/AFSCME.

Oregon -- excellent relationship has been developed with the
state AFL-CIO and key unions through the IAQ program. The
attempt will be made to transfer this to tax issue.

South Carolina -- not a strong labor or fair tax No net He
organization situation, but economist program will be “5 Lhada
considered. **

Texag <- program depends largely on the outcome of the
governor’ s race. CTJ has relationships with fair tax groups
in the state. There is some relationship with various
unions. Committee supports Texas Alliance on Human Needs.

Vermont -- Tiernan and Committee representatives have
developed some IAQ relationship with labor in the state.
The attempt will be made to turn this inte tax support.

Washi on -~ Joe Daniels has strong relationship with key

labor leaders. The Committee has been building a
relationship with the Washington Citizen Action Network.

TNWL 0049691