Wisconsin -- Frank Vento and Committee representatives have
built an IAQ relationship with a number of labor
organizations. The attempt will be made to translate this
into tax support. The Committee supports the Wisconsin
Action Council.

Second Quarter Critical Action Period States

Connecticut -- good relationship with the state AFL-CIO on
IAQ issue. Attempt will be made to build this into tax
support. There is no fair tax group with which the
Committee works. There are specific company problems which
limit activity in the state.

Iowa -- Lowell Junkins has strong relationship with state
AFL-CIO and many key labor leaders. David Wilhelm and the
Committee have strong relationship with Iowa Citizen Action
Network which the Committee supports.

Maine -- Tiernan and Committee representatives have built
relationship with the state AFL-CIO and public employee
groups.

Massachusetts -- strong long-term relationship has been
built with state labor movement on all issues.

Michigan -- Doug Weiland and Committee representatives have
built a strong relationship with broad cross section of the
labor movement on IAQ and federal tax issues. There is a
tax study underway which will be helpful.

Minnesota -- Wes Lane has relationship with some key state
labor leaders. Committee has provided long-term support for
Minnesota CTJ.

aL by f® orth Carolina -- BC&T will be crucial resource.
GAA International Representative T.J. Warren is a Vice President
We ee aw | ef the state AFL-CIO and has an excellent relationship with
aa? state AFL-CIO President Chris Scott. Wilhelm presentation
ae at the recent state AFL-CIO convention was very well
oye _ received and provides a solid foundation upon which to build
labor outreach with the tax message.

Ohio -~ Wilhelm has strong relationship with fair tax
network. Wilhelm and Committee representatives have good
relationship with key labor leaders.

Pennsylv a -- Committee representatives have contacts with
key unions. Committee is looking to bring state labor
consultant on board in the near future.

Rhode Island -- Tiernan and committee representatives have

built strong IAQ relationship with state AFL-CIO leaders and
other key labor groups.

TNWL 0049692