é

Is

Pow Aehinis ¢7 Rinehart

currently being prepared for Michigan and Wisconsin, and tax
conferences to provide a portion of the substantive foundation
for developing our message and reaching out to labor audiences.
This will supplement the tax video and support documents which
will serve as the principal materials for carrying the
Committee's fair tax message to labor audiences.

Citizens for Tax Justice (including its Midwest Director, David
Wilhelm), the network of fair tax/citizen action groups which the
Committee supports, as well as similar groups that the Committee
will be seeking to develop relationships with, will be central to
moving the fair tax message.

Labor Education and outreach

Developing active labor support for the LMC fair tax agenda in
the states requires an extensive education effort. For this, the
Committee turns to the IAQ model for guidance.

Working with the Committee's member unions and other labor
organizations with which the Committee has close relations (i.e.
LCLAA, CLUW, APRI, NCSC, various state labor federations and
central labor councils, SEIU and TCU) Committee representatives
and state consultants will develop opportunities for fair tax
presentations before national, state and local labor organization
audiences.

In some cases, the Committee will be looking to transfer the IAQ
relationships it has built with labor organizations around the
country such as in New England, Michigan and Oregon, into viable
tax relationships. This initiative is particularly important
given that state labor federations will be key targets for
education outreach.

The Committee envisions tax presentations that are similar in
nature to those done on the IAQ issue. Committee representatives
will utilize the tax video and support materials in taking the
fair tax message to these audiences.

Just as with IAQ labor outreach, tax presentations will vary in
nature. In some instances, Committee representatives will
provide the presentation. In other cases, a Committee
representative will be joined by a "technical expert" such as
David Wilhelm. There will also be opportunities which require a
full presentation by the "technical expert."

Prioritizing the States

As a first step in developing the program, we recommend
eliminating from program consideration those states where:

TNWL 0049689