nucleotides complementary to the final 30 nucleotides of the
5’-untranslated region of TMe1 (Prasad et al., 1991), and a
f-actin cDNA.

Analysis of tropomyosin expression

Cell cultures at approximately 70% confluence were
labeled with [S}methionine (100 pCi/ml, 1100 Cifmmol;
Amersham) for 4h, and whole cell protein extracts were pre-
pared and analyzed in duplicate by two-dimensional isoelec-
tric focusing polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis as described
before (Cooper et al., 1985). After radioautography, the ra-
dioactivity in gels was measured directly with an Ambis two-
dimensional radioanalytic imaging system (Ambis Systems,
San Diego, CA). Radioactivity in the tropomyosin-1 spot and
in all proteins resolved on the gel was determined. The rate
of tropomyosin-1 synthesis relative to total protein synthesis
was expressed as radioactivity (cpm) in tropomyosin-1/10°
cpm in total protein. In some experiments, a chase incubation
was performed after 4h of radiolabeling by rinsing mono-
layers with 10 mM sodium phosphate, 150 mM sodium chio-
ride, pH 7.4 (NaCU/P)), covering the monolayers with com-
plete incubation medium without radioisotopes, and continu-
ing the incubation for another 24 h. In other experiments,
steady-state labeling was approximated by incubation with
medium containing [°*S]methionine (50 pCi/ml) and 5% nor-
mal concentration of unlabeled methionine for 24-48 h,

For analysis of proteins in the cytoskeletal fraction, de-
tergent-resistant radiolabeled proteins were extracted from
cells adherent to culture plates as described (Cooper et al.,
1987). Since DT cells and their derivatives are very loosely
adherent to untreated cell culture vessels, they were grown
in plates pre-treated with Cell-Tak [marine mussel adherence
protein (Waite, 1983), Collaborative Research, used accord-
ing to supplier’s instructions] when cytoskeletal proteins
were extracted. .

Analysis of tropomyosin dimers

Tropomyosin dimers formed in growing fibroblasts were
analyzed by modifications of the method described by Lehrer
and coworkers (Lehrer, 1975; Lehrer and Joseph, 1987). Pro-
teins were labeled with [°*S]methionine as above. For total
cell protein analysis, cells from a 70% confluent monolayer
in a 'T75 flask were recovered by scraping, washed in NaCV
P, and suspended in 1 ml 10 mM NaCl, 10 mM Tris base
(pH 7.4) 3 mM EDTA, 1% Nonidet P-40 (buffer A). Before
use, this buffer was made 1 mM in phenylmethylsulfony!
fluoride (PhMeSO,F), 0.4 mM in leupeptin, and 2 pg/ml in
aprotinin to inhibit proteases. Cells were lysed by vortex
mixing for 30s followed by immersion in an ultrasonic bath
for 30 s. After removal of nuclei and debris by centrifugation
(600Xg, 5min., 4°C) the cytoplasmic lysate was made
0.5 M in NaCl. All preceding steps were performed at 0—
4°C. Control lysates were frozen until conclusion of the
cross-linking step. Care was taken in preparation of buffers
and solutions to exclude heavy metals which might enhance
adventitious disulfide bridge formation in control prepara-
tions (Lehrer, 1975).

For crosslinking juxtaposed sulfhydry! groups in tropo-
myosin homodimers, the aromatic disulfides, 4,4’-dithiopyri-
dine (aldrithol-4; Aldrich) and 5,5‘-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoate
(Nbs,, Aldrich) were prepared as described (Lehrer and Jo-
seph, 1987). Samples for cross-linking were made 1 mM in

4,4’-dithiopycidine or Nbs, and were incubated in a water
bath maintained at 20°C for 2h. At this temperature, chain
exchange that might artifactually convert heterodimers to ho-
modimers has been found to be minimal (Lehrer and Qian,
1990). In preliminary experiments it was established that
cross-linking was more than 90% complete after 1h. The
two cross-linking reagents gave identical results but Nbs,
stock solutions were more stable and gave mote reproducible
results.

In order to recover tropomyosins for analysis after cross-
linking, the buffer was changed to 0.15 M NaCl, 0.01 M Tris
base, pH 8.3, by gel filtration over Sephadex G-25 (PD-10
columns, Pharmacia) and immunoprecipitation using antitro-
pomyosin serum and protein-A-bearing, heat-killed, forma-
linized staphylococcus A (Pansorbin, Calbiochem) was per-
formed as described (Cooper et al., 1985). Preparation of
antitropomyosin serum has been described (Bhattacharya et
al., 1990). The antiserum has strong affinity for high-M, tro-
pomyosins (mouse, rat and human non-muscle tropomyosin-
1, topomyosin-2 and tropomyosin-3) but very weak affinity
for the low-M, isoforms. Tropomyosins were eluted from
fixed staphylococci by boiling for 5 min in 50 pi 5 mM Tris
HCl, pH 6.8, 1% (mass/vol.) sodium dodecy! sulfate, 10%
(by vol.) glycerol (buffer B) and were analyzed by one-di-
mensional SDS/PAGE on 10% gels (Laemmli, 1970). No re-
ducing agents were included in any step of this procedure.
Gels were dried and visualized by radiofluorography and,
when desired, the radioactivity was quantified with the
Ambis system.

To analyze cytoskeletal tropomyosin dimers, cytoskele-
ton extracts were prepared as above, except that the buffer
for extraction of cytoskeletal proteins was 0.5M NaCl,
10 mM Tris base (pH 7.4), 3 mM EDTA, 1% (by vol.) Noni-
det P-40 (buffer C) plus protease inhibitors as above (2 ml
buffer C/190-mm diameter dish). Cross-linking and other
steps were as above.

To determine the composition of tropomyosin dimers, di-
mer bands were cut from dried gels using radioautographs as
a guide. The recovered band was cut into small pieces and
extracted with 150 pl buffer B by placing in an ultrasonic
bath for 10 min, shaking at room temperature for at least 4h,
and repeating the ultrasonic treatment. After addition of 1 ml
water, the mixture was shaken and filtered through a Millex
GV 22 um filter. The volume of the filtrate was reduced to
approximately 70 pl under vacuum and 5 pl 2-mercapto-
ethanol was added. After boiling for 5 min, electrophoresis
was performed as above. It should be noted that this method
is formally equivalent to the diagonal gel electrophoresis
method described by Matsumura and Yamashiro-Matsumura
(1985), and has been used by Sanders et al. (1986).

RESULTS
Expression of inserted TMe1 cDNA

Cell clones transduced with pBNC/TMe1 (S-clones) and
pBNC (V-clones) retroviral vectors were prepared as de-
scribed in Materials and Methods section. mRNA derived
from the inserted pBNC/TMe! construct has an expected size
of 2 kb since it consists of full-length 1.1-kb TMe1 (Prasad et
al., 1991) plus approximately 900 bp of non-transiated viral
sequence, terminated by a poly(A) addition signal in the viral
long terminal repeat. Northern blots of the cell lines under
study were prepared and probed with an oligonucleotide
complementary to the final 30 nucleotides of the 5’ un-