homodimers form a stable component of the cytoskeleton
after entry. To examine this question, cross-linked tropomyo-
sins in CSK of WS1, 3T3/S2, and DT/S4 cells were analyzed
after pulse-chase radiolabeling and radioactivity in the tropo-
myosin bands was quantified (Table 1, cytoskeleton). WS1
cells were used to represent normal cells to avoid the compli-
cations arising from the large production of cross-linking 1:2
dimers in NIH3T3 cells. The pulse-labeled sample confirms
the findings of Fig. 6, showing that newly synthesized homo-
dimers enter the cytoskeleton approximately in proportion to
their representation in the whole-cell pool.

Following a 36-h chase incubation, the amount of total
tropomyosin-1 remaining in the cytoskeleton as homodimer
in WS1 decreased to a level typical of the homodimer
content of normal fibroblasts (7.6%), whereas in 3T3/S2
cells the homodimer level remained at three times that value.
This indicates, firstly, that tropomyosin which originally
entered the cytoskeleton as homodimer is gradually replaced
by heterodimers, consistent with chain exchange on equili-
bration, and secondly, that elevated levels of tropomyosin-1
homodimers are retained in the cytoskeleton under condi-
tions of excess tropomyosin-1 production. This result was
confirmed by examining cytoskeletal tropomyosin dimers af-
ter labeling WS1 and 3T3/S2 cells to steady-state (Table 1).
The steady state level of cytoskeletal homodimers was higher
in both cases than the level after pulse-chase, which can be
accounted for by continued entry of newly synthesized mate-
rial reflecting the pulse-labeled proportion. The steady-state
level of cytoskeletal tropomyosin-1 homodimer in 3T3/S2
cells remained at three times the normal level.

In DT/S4 cells, the level of cytoskeletal homodimer de-
creased to a surprising degree after the chase, considering the
very low level of tropomyosin-2 available for chain exchange
(Table 1). It is possible that this reflects a preferential insta-
bility of portions of actin microfilaments containing high
levels of homodimer under conditions of ras-p21 expression,
with preferential retention of the small numbers of filaments
containing heterodimers.

DISCUSSION

We have investigated tropomyosin-1 metabolism in nor-
mal and oncogene-transformed fibroblasts, and in cell lines
derived by transducing tropomyosin-1-encoding cDNA into
both types of cells. Our results demonstrate that the expres-
sion of tropomyosin-1 can be stably enhanced in both normal
and oncogene-transformed murine fibroblasts by means of
retroviral mediated cDNA transfer. In the case of transformed
cells, where the level of native tropomyosin-1 expression was
reduced by 50% as a consequence of oncogene action, ex-
pression of the transduced cDNA restores tropomyosin-1
production to well above normal levels. Not unexpectedly,
the suppressive effect of ras-oncogene action on native tro-
pomyosin-1 production does not affect the alien cytomegalo-
virus promoter which drives expression of the inserted tropo-
myosin-1 cDNA.

Although native tropomyosin-1 expression is reduced by
only 50% in the transformed cells, its utilization in the cy-
toskeleton was reduced to a much greater extent, compared
with normal NIH3T3 cells. The high level of expression of
transduced tropomyosin-1 resulted in a considerable increase
in tropomyosin-1 utilization in the cytoskeleton of trans-
formed cells, but this still did not reach normal levels. These
findings may be due to specific effects of oncogene action

on tropomyosin utilization in the cytoskeleton (Cooper et al.,
1987) which persist under conditions of excess tropomyosin-
1 production. Alternatively, the effect on utilization of excess
tropomyosin-1 may be a consequence of the fact that nearly
all the insert-derived tropomyosin-1 was present as a homo-
dimer due to the extreme suppression of its potential hetero-
dimeric partner, tropomyosin-2, by oncogene action. Homo-
dimers are reported to associate less efficiently than hetero-
dimers with actin microfilaments (Jancso and Graceffa,
1991). Nevertheless, as we have shown elsewhere (Prasad
and Cooper, 1992, Prasad et al., 1993), this modest degree
of elevation of tropomyosin-1 representation in the cytoskel-
eton still correlates with effective suppression of the trans-
formed phenotype and partial restoration of cytoskeletal ar-
chitecture. This study provides the biochemical evidence that
the enhanced tropomyosin-1 synthesis is reflected in the ele-
vated tropomyosin-1 content in the cytoskeleton, as evi-
denced by immunofluorescence experiments in DT/S clones
(Prasad et al., 1993).

Tropomyosin dimerization in the fibroblasts was origi-
nally studied by Lin et al. (1985) and Matsumura and Ya-
mashiro-Matsumura (1985) who reported the occurrence of
tropomyosin-1 and other isoforms of tropomyosin, with the
exception of tropomyosin-2, as homodimers. Matsumura and
Yamashiro-Matsumura (1985) have suggested that all iso-
forms of tropomyosin, except tropomyosin-3, are present as
homodimers either as isolated proteins or in the microfila-
ment-associated state; no quantitative data were provided in
these studies. This is in contradiction to several reports
(Sanders et al., 1986; Lehrer et al, 1989; Jancso and
Graceffa, 1991) which have shown that heterodimers of tro-
pomyosin are the physiologically preferred structures in the
actin microfilaments. Our studies of tropomyosin dimers in
normal fibroblasts revealed that a high proportion of newly
synthesized, tropomyosin-1 forms homodimers, but that on
prolonged equilibration these are replaced by heterodimers,
presumably through chain exchange. Our studies confirm
that this mechanism, originally described in cell-free systems
(Lehrer and Qian, 1990; Lehrer and Stafford, 1991) operates
in vivo. As in previously reported studies with smooth and
skeletal muscle (Sanders et al., 1986; Lehrer et al., 1989;
Jancso and Graceffa, 1991), fibroblasts maintain only a small
proportion of their native high-M, tropomyosins as homodi-
mers.

Under the conditions of excess tropomyosin-1 expression
produced by cDNA insertion, the excess tropomyosin-1 is
produced largely as tropomyosin-1 homodimer in both nor-
mal and transformed cells, and this homodimer is utilized in
the formation of cytoskeletal structures. In non-transformed
cells overexpressing tropomyosin-1, although the homadi-
mers were partially replaced by heterodimers over time, the
level of homodimer in the cytoskeleton remained about three
times that found in control fibroblasts. These conclusions are
based on measurements of tropomyosin-1 homodimers under
a variety of cell-labeling conditions. Absolute quantification
of tropomyosin-1 and tropomyosin-2 heterodimers was not
possible by diagonal gel analysis; the heterodimers which
are not cross-linked by NbS, dissociate in the presence of
SDS employed in the first dimension of the diagonal PAGE.
Our efforts to resolve the various dimers under conventional
non-denaturing PAGE have not been successful. An alternate
explanation for diminished homodimers in the cytoskeleton
during pulse-chase experiments (Table 1) is that the homodi-
mers of tropomyosin-1 may be more susceptible to proteo-
lytic degradation than the heterodimers of isoforms 1 and 2.