Table 1. Amount of tropomyosin-1 homodimers present in all
tropomyosin-1-containing dimers. Cells were labeled with
(2°S}methionine for 4h (pulse) oc 36h (steady-state). Chase cells
were incubated without radioactivity for 36h after pulse labeling.
‘Whole cytoplasm or cytoskeleton was prepared and cross-linked as
described in the Materials and Methods section and immunoprecipi-
tated trapomyosins were analyzed by one-dimensional SDS/PAGE
in the absence of reducing agents. The radioactivity in tropomyosin-
1 monomer and tropomyosin-1 homodimer bands was determined.
The label in tropomyosin-1 monomer is assumed to be derived from
heterodimers. The amount of tropomyosin-1 homodimers present in
all tropomyosin-{-containing dimers was calculated, taking into ac-
count the fact that wo labeled tropomyosin-1 monomers are repre
sented in each homodimer and one labeled monomer is represented
in a heterodimer. n.d., not determined.

 

 

 

 

Sample | Amount in
whole cytoplasm cytoskeleton
pulse chase pulse chase steady-state
%
WS1 25.8 74 18.8 16 11.5
3THS2 60.9 15.2 48.1 23.3 35.6
DT/S4 69.6 53.5 68.1 37.4 n.d,

 

 

: DTIS4
OS

3T3/S2
Fig. 5. Tropomyosin dimer formation in TMel transduced cells.
3TYS2 and DT/S4 cells were radiolabeled, cross-linked, immuno-

precipitated and analyzed by SDS/PAGE as described in Fig. 4. Ctrl,
control.

was fourfold greater than the tropomyosin-1 monomer
(Fig. 5). A similar result was obtained with DT/S4 cells.
Thus, in both normal and ras-transformed cells, the bulk of
the excess tropomyosin-1 arising from transduced expression
of TMel is found initially as the homodimer.

On pulse-chase labeling of the transduced lines, the pro-
portion of labeled tcopomyosin-1 remaining in the homodi-
mer form decreased markedly after the chase in 3T3/S2 cells,
consistent with conversion to the heterodimer (Table 1,

 

ed

Fig. 6. Appearance of newly synthesized tropomyosin dimers in
the cytoskeleton of normal, transformed, and TMel transduced
cells. Cells were labeled for 4h with (S]methionine and detergent-
resistant cytoskeletal proteins were cross-linked. Immunoprecipita-
tion followed by SDS/PAGE were performed as detailed in the Mate-
rials and Methods section. Only cross-linked samples are shown.
TM1, tropomyosin-1.

whole cytoplasm). However, the change following the chase
was less impressive in DT/S4, most probably because of the
diminished amount of tropomyosin-2 available for chain ex-
change in those cells (Table 1).

It will be noted that, in the non-crosslinked controls of S
clones, a certain amount of material appeared at the position
of the 1:1 dimer (Fig. 5, lanes 1 and 3). This band did not
always appear (compare control DT/S4 lanes in Fig. 4A and
B) and may be due to artifactual oxidative cross-linking in
the presence of large excesses of homodimers. The occur-
rence of this band in controls does not affect our conclusions
regarding the numbers of homodimers derived from cross-
linking studies.

Appearance of tropomyosin dimers in the cytoskeleton

To study the ability of tropomyosin dimers to enter the
cytoskeleton, detergent-resistant cytoskeletal proteins, pre-
pared from cells labeled for 4h, were cross-linked (Fig. 6).
In NIH3T3 cells, all three of the dimer forms noted in whole
cell preparations also appeared in the cytoskeleton and pre-
dominated over heterodimers (represented by non-cross-
linked monomers).

In 373/S2 cells, a large amount of newly synthesized 1:1
homodimer entered the cytoskeleton, exceeding the amount
of heterodimer. DT cells yielded very little tropomyosin of
any type from the cytoskeleton, consistent with the
tropomyosin-1 utilization studies performed earlier. DT/S4,
however, showed large amounts of 1:1 homodimer in the
cytoskeleton.

Stability of homodimers in the cytoskeleton

The previous experiments demonstrate that newly synthe-
sized wopomyosin-1 in homodimers associates with the cy-
toskeleton effectively under conditions of excess homodimer
formation. It remains to be determined, however, whether