43

TM1 — =
TM2 -

26 -

 

 

TM1 — ovat
TM2 -22
—

EE

Fig.4. Tropomyosin dimer formation in normal fibroblasts. Cells were metabolically radiolabeled with (°*S}methionine for 4h and
cytoplasm was prepared. Indicated samples were cross-linked, immunoprecipitated and analyzed by SDS/PAGE as described in the Materials
and Methods section. (A) Identification of tropomyosin monomers in NIH3T3 control preparation by reference to cell lines overexpressing
tropomyosin-1 (DT/S4) and tropomyosin-2 (DT/T2b). (B) Cross-linking of NIH3T3 and WS1 tropomyosins and identification of tropomyo-
sin-1/tropomyosin-1 and tropomyosin-2/tropomyosin-2 homodimers by reference to cross-linked samples of cell lines overexpressing tropo-
myosin-1 (DT/S4) and tropomyosin-2 (DT/T2b). (C) Identification of cross-linked tropomyosin-1/tropomyosin-2 heterodimer by recovery
and repeat electrophoresis under reducing conditions. TM1, tropomyosin-1; TM2, twopomyosin-2,

hanced in the transductants expressing high levels of either
tropomyosin-1 or tropomyosin-2 alone, and the monomers
were evidently released by cleavage of disulfide bonds, the
result implies that NIH3T3 cells produce significant amounts
of tropomyosin-1/tropomyosin-2 heterodimer that can be
cross-linked. Such cross-linked heterodimers occur in muscle
cells (Lehrer and Joseph, 1987) because the tropomyosin £
isoform of muscle cells contains both Cys36 and Cys190
which would permit their formation. The observation raises
the possibility that NIH3T3 cells express, in addition to the
high-M, isoforms typical of fibroblasts, a significant amount
of an alternative splice product (Lees-Miller and Helfman,
1991) typical of muscle cells. Since, as noted below, this
form was produced to a much lower degree in other normal
fibroblasts, its prominence in NIH3T3 cells may be a pecu-
liarity of that cell line, or of the particular cultivar used in
our laboratory. Its presence in NIH3T3 cells does not affect
the studies presented below and it will therefore not be con-
sidered further in this study. The 1:1 and 2:2 dimer bands
were also analyzed by recovery and reduction which con-
firmed that they contained only tropomyosin-1 or tropomyo-
sin-2, respectively (data not shown).

We also examined the dimers formed in normal human
skin fibroblasts (strain WS1) (Fig. 4B). In this case, the 1:1
dimer was the predominant cross-linked species, with a much
lower level of the putative cross-linked heterodimer than in
NIH3T3. This was also true of other non-transformed fibro-
blasts examined (NRK (rat kidney), MRCS (human lung),
data not shown). :

Quantification of this and other experiments revealed that
25-30% of dimers containing radiolabeled tropomyosin-1
were 1:1 homodimers in non-transformed fibroblasts. This
observation diverges from the results of previous studies

which established that the bulk of topomyosin in smooth
and skeletal muscle was heterodimers (Sanders et al., 1986;
Lehrer et al., 1989; Jancso and Graceffa, 1991). An explana-
tion for the difference may lie in the fact that our analysis of
tropomyosins radiolabeled for 4h examined primarily re-
cently synthesized molecules. It has been reported that, in
mixtures of tropomyosin monomers, homodimers initially
may form rapidly but are converted to more stable hetero-
dimers by chain exchange upon prolonged equilibration at
physiological temperatures (Lehrer and Qian, 1990; Lehrer
and Stafford, 1991). To determine whether such a rearrange-
ment occurs in vive in normal fibroblasts, we analyzed radio-
labeled teopomyosin dimers in WS1 cells labeled for 4h and
chase incubated for an additional 36 h (Table 1, whole cyto-
plasm, gels not shown). In this experiment quantification re-
vealed that, in the total cytoplasm, 25% of dimers containing
pulse-labeled tropomyosin-1 were homodimers, while this
value decreased to approximately 7% after chase incubation.
The latter value is in agreement with results of previous
workers (Sanders et al., 1986; Lehrer et al., 1989; Jancso and
Graceffa, 1991). Evidently, newly synthesized tropomyosin-1
molecules may initially form homodimers in vivo which are
gradually replaced by more stable, non-cross-linking, hetero-
dimers through chain exchange. Thus, the equilibrium condi-
tion in normal fibroblasts is equivalent to that previously re-
ported for skeletal and smooth muscle, namely high-molecu-
lar-mass tropomyosins occur only to a very limited extent as
homodimers.

Tropomyosin dimer formation in TMel transduced cells

Cross-linking of tropomyosins in NIH3T3/S2 cells re-
sulted in a band of 1:1 homodimer which, on quantification,