tion by many modalities, acting to destabilize the actin
microfilaments (Cooper et al., 1985). This destabilization
may contribute to the loss of microfilament bundles, a well-
known concomitant event of neoplastic transformation
(Maness, 1981) and it has been proposed as a cause of this
transformation (Pollack et al., 1975; Maness, 1981).

In a recently published study, in order to clarify the role
of tropomyosin suppression in oncogene-induced neoplastic
transformation, we enhanced the expression of the tropomyo-
sin-1 isoform by cDNA insertion in transformed cells (Prasad
and Cooper, 1992; Prasad et al., 1993). In v-Ki-ras-trans-
formed NIH3T3 cells [DT cells (Noda et al., 1983)], where
oncogene action had suppressed tropomyosin-1 isoform ex-
pression by 50% and tropomyosin-2 isoform expression
nearly completely (Cooper et al., 1985, 1987), restoring ex-
pression of the single isoform, tropomyosin-1, had major ef-
fects on the transformed phenotype. Anchorage-independent
growth was virtually abolished, tumorigenesis was sup-
pressed, and cytoskeletal structure was pattially restored. Re-
cent studies have shown that restoration of expression of vin-
culin and @-actinin causes similar reversion (Fernandez et al.,
1992; Gluck et al., 1993).

Interpretation of the effects produced by such manipula-
tions requires an understanding of the effectiveness with
which the newly supplied molecules participate in cellular
processes and the potential for perturbation of cell function
that may arise from excess production of single isoforms. In
the case of tropomyosin, consideration must be given to the
form in which insert-derived molecules appear in the cell.
Tropomyosin, in its native form, occurs as a side-to-side di-
mer. The dimers polymerize end-to-end in associating with
filamentous actin in microfilaments (Leavis and Gergely,
1984). Several studies have shown that the thermodynam-
ically favored dimer is a heterodimer of two tropomyosin
isoforms (e.g. tropomyosin-a/f} (Bronson and Schachat
1982). In smooth muscle, it has been concluded that the het-
erodimer is the native form (Sanders et al., 1986; Jancso and
Graceffa, 1991) although some conflicting evidence remains
to be considered (Holizer et al., 1992). This point also re-
mains to be confirmed for non-muscle cells. Of relevance in
the present context is whether excess production of a single
isoform results in formation of homodimers and whether
these are stable in the intact cell and utilized in the cytoskele-
ton. Lin et al. (1985) and Matsumura and Yamashiro-Matsu-
mura (1985) have reported the existence of tropomyosin ho-
modimers in fibroblasts.

In the present study, we have augmented expression of
the tropomyosin-1 isoform to above-normal levels in non-
transformed mouse NIH3T3 cells by retroviral-mediated
transduction of TMe1, a cDNA encoding human tropomyo-
sin-1 cloned in this laboratory (Prasad et al., 1991). Similarly
treated ras-teansformed DT cells, prepared in our earlier
study as described above (Prasad et al., 1993), were also
investigated. TMei was chosen for the present studies be-
cause expression of the human sequence can be readily de-
tected against the background levels present in mouse, and
because the mobility of the tropomyosin-1 isoform in two-
dimensional electrophoretic gels permits its unambiguous
identification and quantification. Although the mouse tropo-
myosin-1 cDNA sequence has not been published, the de-
tived amino acid sequences of rat (Helfman et al., 1986) and
human (Prasad et al., 1991) tropomyosin-1 differ by only two
conservative substitutions. It is, therefore, highly likely that
human tropomyosin-1 will be functional in the mouse cell.
In the present study, we have primarily investigated the me-

tabolism of the transduced isoform of tropomyosin, tropomy-
osin-1, in the revertant cell lines we described earlier (Prasad
et al., 1993) and in NIH3T3 cells similarly transduced. In
order to obtain the necessary background information from
normal (unmodified) cells, we have also described the dimers
of tropomyosin-1 and other tropomyosin isoforms in
NIH3T3 fibroblasts and human skin (WS1) fibroblasts. We
have compared the synthesis and cytoskeletal utilization of
overexpressed tropomyosin-1 in normal and transformed
cells, and in derivatives overexpressing tropomyosin-1.
Finally, we have characterized the tropomyosin-1 containing
dimers entering the cytoskeleton and have examined their
stability.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
Cell cultures

NIH3T3 cells and DT cells were obtained from Dr Robert
Bassin, National Cancer Institute. DT cells are NIH3T3 cells
that were transformed twice with the v-Ki-ras oncogene and
contain two integrated copies of the oncogene (Noda et al.,
1983). The Psi-2 ecotropic packaging cell line (Mann et al.,
1983) and the pBNC retroviral vector (described in Robbins
et al., 1991) were obtained from the laboratory of Dr W.
French Anderson (National Heart, Lung, and Blood Insti-
tute). DT/T2b cells were derived in this laboratory from DT
cells and express high levels of the mouse tropomyosin-2
isoform as a consequence of transfection with the relevant
cDNA in a vector placing it under control of the cytomegalo-
virus promoter. It is used in this study only to identify tropo-
myosin-2 and will be described in detail elsewhere. All cell
lines were cultivated in Dulbecco’s modified Eagle’s mini-
mal essential medium with 10% fetal bovine serum and anti-
biotics.

Retroviral vector construction, transduction
and clone selection

The major features of the pBNC retroviral vector are as
follows: long terminal repeats and packaging signal of the
Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV), a neomycin-re-
sistance gene driven by the Moloney murine leukemia virus
long terminal repeat, a cytomegalovirus promoter down-
stream of the neo" sequence, and a unique BamH1 restriction
site for insertion of sequences to be expressed under control
of the cytomegalovirus promoter (Robbins et al., 1991). Sub-
cloning of TMei cDNA into the BamH1 site of pBNC and
derivation of clones of NIH3T3 and DT cells expressing
TMei mRNA were performed as described previously (Pra-
sad et al., 1993). Control clones were produced with unmodi-
fied pBNC. Three clones from DT (DT/S clones (Prasad et
al., 1993)] and two from NIH3T3 (3T3/S clones), stably ex-
pressing TMel mRNA at high levels (see below) were
selected for study, together with three control clones from
DT (DT/V clones) and two control clones from NIH3T3
(3T3/V clones). No infectious virus or reverse transcriptase
was detected in culture supernatants of the various clones.

Northern-blot analysis

Northern-blot analysis was performed by standard meth-
ods (Sambrook et al., 1989). Probes used were oligodeoxy-