|

 

3732 . oT

3T3/S2 DT/S4

 

TMi1/Actin (mol/100 mol)

 

 

 

nowaos eps $
~@8st F838 8 5
GeEERE SE ZEEE E
5BES6 00 ZN aA

Fig.3. Cytoskeletal utilization of tropomyosin-1. Cell cultures
were labeled with [’S]methionine for 24 h to approximate the equi-
librium state. Detergent-resistant cytoskeletal proteins were prepared
and analyzed in duplicate by two-dimensional isoelectric focusing/
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Tne radioactivity in the gels was
measured directly with the Ambis two-dimensional radioanalytic im-
aging system. Tropomyosin-1 utilization in the cytoskeleton was ex-
pressed as mo! tropomyosin-1/100 mol actin, using the relationship:
mol/100 mol tropomyosin-1:actin = 100X8X tropomyosin-1 ra-
dioactivity/3 X actin radioactivity to correct for the difference in me-
thionine content of actin and tropomyosin-1. (A—D) Tropomyosin-
i-containing regions of representative gels. (A) 373/¥2; (B) DT;
(C) 313/82; (D) DT/S4. (EZ) Quantification of tropomyosin-1 utiliza-
tion. Tropomyosin-1 (~-). TM-1, tropomyosin-1.

exceeding the 50% reduction in tropomyosin-1 synthesis
noted above (Fig. 2E). DT/S clones showed a significant ele-
vation in the cytoskeletal tropomyosin-1 content, but the
level was still well below that of control NIH3T3, Evidently,
ras expression exerts profound effects on tropomyosin-1
utilization in the cytoskeleton and, unlike the case for trans-
duced tropomyosin-1 synthesis, this influence affects the
utilization of the transduced species despite its high level of
synthesis,

In the case of the 3T3/S clones, it would be anticipated
that unrestricted production of native tropomyosins would
result in optimal occupancy of tropomyosin binding sites on
the actin microfilaments, providing little scope for increased
utilization of tropomyosin-i despite its elevated synthesis.
The results confirmed this expectation, showing only a
modest rise in tropomyosin-1 utilization in 3T3/S clones
(Fig. 3E).

Tropomyosin dimer formation in cultured fibroblasts

Tropomyosin dimer formation was studied by a method
based on that described by Lehrer and coworkers (Lehrer,
1975; Lehrer and Joseph, 1987). This method takes advan-
tage of the fact that ropomyosin-1 contains a single cysteine
residue at position 36 (Lehrer, 1975; Helfman et al., 1986,
MacLeod et al., 1985; Prasad et al., 1991) whereas the single
cysteine residue of uopomyosin-2 is at position 190 (Take-
naga et al., 1988). Parallel homodimers of either species can
be cross-linked by formation of interchain disulfide bridges
because the two cysteine residues are closely juxtaposed.
Conversely, tropomyosin-1/tropomyosin-2 heterodimers can-
not form cross-links because of the distance between their
cysteine residues. Upon incubation with aromatic disulfides,
cross-linking of homodimers proceeds rapidly to completion
(Lehrer, 1975, Lehrer and Joseph, 1987). Using SDS/PAGE
in the absence of reducing agents, the non-cross-linked tro-
pomyosins of heterodimers are denatured and migrate as mo-
nomers, while the cross-linked tropomyosins of homodimers
migrate with characteristic slower mobility. For quantitative
purposes, forms which migrate as monomers under these
conditions are presumed to’ be derived from heterodimers
(Lehrer, 1975; Lehrer and Joseph, 1987). Previous workers
have used this technique to study dimer formation in tropo-
myosins purified or extracted from skeletal or smooth muscle
(Lehrer, 1975; Lehrer and Joseph, 1987; Lehrer and Qian,
1990). We have adapted the method, combining it with im-
munoprecipitation, for use with cytoplasmic extracts and de-
tergent-resistant cytoskeletal preparations of metabolically
radiolabeled cultured cells. The approach used in our study
avoids essentially all purification steps that might disturb the
tropomyosin dimer composition present in vivo.

Identification of the tropomyosin-1 and tropomyosin-2
species visualized in this system was accomplished by SDS/
PAGE comfarison of non-crosslinked tropomyosin immuno-
precipitates from NIH3T3 cells with those from DT cells [ex~
pressing low levels of tropomyosin-1 and virtually no tropo-
myosin-2), DT/S4 cells (expressing elevated levels of cDNA-
derived tropomyosin-1, virtually no tropomyosin-2 (Prasad
et al., 1993)], and DT/T2b cells (expressing low levels of
tropomyosin-1 and elevated levels of cDNA-derived tropo-
myosin-2) (Fig. 44). The NIH3T3 species migrating slightly
faster than tropomyosin-2 is presumably tropomyosin-3 but
is not formally identified in this study. Since the antiserum
used has specificity directed almost exclusively toward the
high-M, topomyosins, the low-M, non-muscle tropomyosins
(tropomyosin-4 and tropomyosin-5) are rarely visualized in
this procedure. Other non-tropomyosin bands are also ob-
served which either co-precipitate with tropomyosin or react
non-specifically with the antiserum.

Cross-linking of NIH3T3 tropomyosins gave a compli-
cated pattem, producing dimers in three size ranges
(Fig. 4B). Comparison with cross-linked preparations of DT/
$4 and DT/T2b cells indicated that the most rapidly migrat-
ing dimer band (1:1 dimer) was the tropomyosin-1 homodi-
mer (compared with DT/S4 dimer) and the band with inter-
mediate migration (2:2) was tropomyosin-2 homodimer
(compared with DT/T2b dimer). To determine the composi-
tion of the most slowly migrating dimer (1:2), the appropri-
ate band was recovered from the gel and electrophoresis was
repeated after reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol to cleave di-
sulfide bonds. This procedure revealed that the slowly mi-
grating band contained both tropomyosin-1 and tropomyosin-
2 in equal quantities (Fig. 4C). Since this band was not en-