- Ne NN

ow Nowe ot
w

pepas ~S Bee e&

595686 aaaaaaa

SUT

2 kb

Actin

 

Fig. 1. Northern-blot analysis of TMel expression. Poly(A)-rich
RNA was prepared from monolayer cultures. Samples of 5 ug were
analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis and blotted onto nylon
membranes (Gene Screen Plus, Dupont). Hybridizations were per-
formed using an oligonucleotide probe complementary to the last 30
nucleotides of the TMe1 5’-untranslated region (5’UT) and a f-actin
probe.

translated region of TMe1 (Prasad et al., 1991) which is
unique to TMe1 and does not hybridize to native murine
species (Fig. 1). In all S-clones the 5’-untralated region probe
hybridized to a 2 kb MRNA corresponding to insert-derived
mRNA while no signal was obtained with parental or
V-clone cells.

Synthesis of tropomyosin-1 in transduced lines

The synthesis of tropomyosin-1 protein was determined
from total protein extracts of cells metabolically radiolabeled
with P*S]methionine for 4 and was analyzed by two-di-
mensional isoelectric focusing/polyacrylamide gel electro-
phoresis. Radioautographs of the tropomyosin-containing re-
gions of representative gels are shown in Fig. 2A—D. For
quantification of topomyosin-1 expression, duplicate gels
from each cell line were prepared and radioactivity in the
tropomyosin-1 spot and in all spots resolved on the gel was
determined by direct radioactive scanning (see Materials and
Methods section). Synthesis of tropomyosin-1 was expressed
as radioactivity (cpm) in tropomyosin-1/10° cpm in total cell
protein (Fig. 2E).

The level of tropormmyosin-1 expression in DT cells was
approximately 50% of that in normal NIH3T3 cells, consis-
tent with previous observations (Cooper et al., 1985, 1987).
Y-clones of both types expressed tropomyosin-1 at levels
comparable to their respective untreated parental lines, while
S-clones expressed tropomyosin-1 at levels 3—8-times
greater than normal NIH3T3 cells. DT/S and 3T3/S clones
expressed tropomyosin-1 at similar elevated levels (Fig. 2E).
Thus, both normal NIH3T3 cells and v-Ki-ras transformed
DT cells can be transduced to express tropomyosin-1 at
levels markedly above normal levels.

 

A

NIH3T3

STIS2

 

 

°

2

A

=

2

§ $s

2

3 8

&

g 7

= §

co 5

=

Zz 4

2

3 3

= 2

®

£

1

=

=o

i

~ c nownaow yg Gsg
® 8868223 8882
ZErrErrerepeEerfFPeRPFE
Z2aagcaqgdgcaqaannnm am

Fig. 2. Synthesis of tropomyosin-1 protein. Cell cultures were la-
beled with [?*S]methionine for 4h and whole-cell protein extracts
were prepared and analyzed in duplicate by two-dimensional iso-
electric focusing/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The radio-
activity in gels was measured directly with the Ambis two-dimen-
sional radioanalytic imaging system. The radioactivity in the tropo-
myosin-1 spot and in all proteins resolved on the gel was deter-
mined. The rate of tropomyosin-1 synthesis relative to total protein
synthesis was expressed as radioactivity (cpm) in tropomyosin-1/
10% cpm in total protein. (A-D)Tropomyosin-containing regions of
representative gels. (A)NEH3T3; (B} DT; (C)3T3/S2; (D) DT/S4;
(E) Quantification of tropomyesin-1 synthesis. The arrow indicates
tropomyosin-1. TM1, tropomyosin-1.

Cytoskeletal utilization of tropomyosin-1 in DT
and NIH3T3 lines

Since tropomyosin functions as a component of the
microfilament system (Leavis and Gergely, 1984), the phy-
siological significance of elevated synthesis of tropomyosin-
1 is uncertain. A more relevant question is whether such ele-
vated expression is reflected in increased utilization of tropo-
myosin-1 in the cytoskeleton with attendant alteration in cy-
toskeletal composition. To study this point, cells were radio-
labeled for extended periods to reach steady-state levels. The
level of radioactive tropomyosin-1 in two-dimensional gels
of cytoskeletal preparations was expressed relative to the la-
beling of actin as a measure of utilization of tropomyosin-1
in microfilaments. Since steady-state labeling was employed,
the question of differential pool tumover does not arise. Re-
presentative gels of the labeled cytoskeletal preparations are
shown in Fig. 3A—D and quantitative results for the entire
series are shown in Fig. 3E.

Comparison of results for DT and NIH3T3 control cells
reveals that tropomyosin-1 utilization in the cytoskeleton is
markedly suppressed in the transformed cells (Fig. 3E), far