Mos, es 77 79

’

Scientists Transfer Genes...

Into Human Cancer Patient

“By Marini CHASE 073",
Staff Reporter of Tue Wat. Street JOURNAL

Scientists at the National Institutes: of .

Health, in the first approved experiment of
its kind, yesterday: implanted | a non- “human
gene into a patient. .. ~~ -

The experiment, which had run a year-

’ long obstacle course of regulatory ap--

provals and litigation, brings the decade-
old science of gene-splicing into direct hu-
man application for the first time since a
California scientist made an unauthorized

attempt several years ago to:cure a blood:

disorder. That earlier effort ended in fail-
ure andi scientific censure. - -

_ Steven A. Rosenberg, W. French “Ander- .
son and R. Michael Blaese yesterday in- “

fused'a cancer patient with cancer-fighting
cells bearing a special marker gene that
will be used to track those cells in the body

and monitor their progress against the tu--

mor. “It’s an important day for us,. be-

’ cause we're desperately anxious to develop

- better cancer treatments,” Dr. Rosenberg

said in an interview. ‘But it has a signifi-

cance beyond cancer treatment for future
gene therapy.” ~-

__ The patient was drawn from a group of

t

~ volunteers with advanced malignant mela:

noma, a fatal tumor that arises from
moles and spreads to other sites in the
body. Dr. Rosenberg said the patient ‘'tol-
erated the. treatment weil.” The team is
authorized to perform the gene transfer in

-aS Many as 10 such volunteers, who have

about a 3-month life expectancy and who
have given written consent for the proce-
dure. wtetee 2S et onlen, et Neh

The infusion was done at the Warten:

Grant Magnuson Clinical Center on the.

NIH campus in Bethesda, Md. It took 30
minutes to infuse about half a liter of |
milky white solution containing almost 100"
billion cells bearing the marker gene.

~ The gene transfer isn’t intended:as ther-
apy in Itself, but is an extension of Dr. Ro-
senberg’s experiments in immunotherapy
for advanced cases of cancer. In the exper-
iments, Dr. Rosenberg conducts a biopsy
of a tumor and minces it, extracting can-
cer-fighting white blood cells called tumor-
infiltrating lymphocytes, or TILs. The cells

are soaked In interleukin-2, a growth fac- |

tor, to produce massive quantities of TILs,

which are then reinfused into the patient te

Please Turn to Page B7, Column 1 we

on

f
re i ee

008992%C 202