[DIMETHOMORPH] Chronic Oral Study (83-1)

Food consumption for each animal was determined daily and the mean daily diet con-
sumption was calculated per week as g food/animal/day. Food efficiency (body weight
gain, kg/food consumption, kg per unit time X 100) was not calculated by the study
authors. Compound intake (mg/kg/day) values were calculated based on the nominal
concentration of the test material in the diet,’ food consumption, and body weight data.

Results -

a.

Food consumption - The total mean food consumption of male dogs in the 150, 450,
and 1350 ppm treatment grotips was 98%, 95%, and 100%, respectively, of the
control dogs. The total mean food consumption of female dogs in the 150, 450, and
1350 ppm treatment groups was 108%, 103%, and 101%, respectively, of the female

~ dogs in the control group (Table 3), The increased body weight gain of female dogs

June 1994

in the 150 ppm treatment group may have been due to the slight increase in food
consumption, .

. Compound intake - The average compound intake per dog based on the mean weekly
food consumption, mean weekly body weight, and Dimethomorph concentration in.

the feed is shown in Table 3,

Food efficiency - Food efficiency was not calculated by the Study authors. Table 3
shows the feed efficiency of each group in the study calculated by the reviewers as
total kg body weight gain/total ke food consumed. No specific conclusions
concerning the effect of Dimethomorph treatment on beagle dogs can be made
without the use of historical data (historical data was not provided by the study
authors). This is because one male dog in the 150 ppm treatment group and one
male dog in the 450 ppm treatment group consumed significantly less food/day than
the other male dogs in their respective treatment groups. Additionally, wide
variations in individual food intake were found in all female dog treatment groups.
Because of the small treatment group size, the wide individual variances in food
intake have significant statistical impact that decreases the usefulness of feed
efficiency data.

LO¥8 LSPeS ©