[DIMETHOMORPH] Chronic Oral Study (83-1)

Results -

a. Homogeneity analysis - In a prior study, it was demonstrated that the diet
preparations were homogeneously prepared at concentrations of Dimethomorph up
to 5000 ppm (Appendix A, Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3).

b. Stability analysis - Diet preparations were stable (+ 10% theoretical concentration)
for at least 14 days at ambient temperature in the dark (Appendix A, Table 2).
Interconversion of the E and Z isomers did not appear to occur during the 14-day
storage period Appendix A Table 4).

c. Concentration analysis ~ Test diets collected during weeks 1, 4, 9, 22, 35, and 49
were analyzed for Dimethomorph. Except for the Group 4 test diet collected during
week 22 (theoretical concentration-1350 ppm, actual concentration 1200 ppm, %

- deviation = 11.1%), the actual Dimethomorph concentration in the test diets were
within 10% of the theoretical concentrations. The Group 4 test diet was reanalyzed
during week 24 and was within acceptable limits (theoretical concentration- 1350 ppm,
actual concentration 1319 ppm, % deviation = 2.3%).

3. Diet

Each dog received 400 g of food daily throughout the study, The food ration was given
in the morning of each day and was left until the following morning. The food
’ consumption of each dog was measured daily. Tap water was provided ad libitum.

4. Statisti

Body weight, organ weight, hematology, and clinical chemistry parameters were analyzed
for variance homogeneity using the F-max test. If the variance was homogeneous, a
parametric ANOVA was used. Pairwise comparisons of homogenous data were made
using the Student's t-test with the level of significance set at 0.05. If the variances were
not homogenous, log or square root transformations to smooth the data were used and
the calculations repeated. In addition to reporting actual organ weights, they were also
analyzed with body weight as covarient. Statistical trend analysis was not done.

5. Compliance
Signed and dated GLP and quality assurance statements were present.
C. METHODS AND RESULTS
“1, Observations

The dogs were inspected at regular intervals (duration not specified) each day for clinical
signs of toxicity and twice daily for viability.

B6EB LSpzs

June 1994 4