[DIMETHOMORPH] , Chronic Oral Study (83-1)

was a Slight increase (2.5 to 3-fold in males and females) in ALK activity. Although the
liver was significantly enlarged in the male and female dog high dose groups following
dimethomorph treatment, the only histopathologic effect reported was a slight qualitative
increase in liver lipids. No effects to the biliary tree, indications of hypertrophy, or other
evidence sufficient to explain the increased liver weight other than increased hepatic lipid
were reported. The significance of a slight increase in ALK activity is uncertain, particu-

larly without corroborative liver histopathology or without alterations of other clinical assays |

of liver homeostasis such as total bilirubin, total protein, albumin, LDH, ALT, or

* prothrombin time. An increase of intracellular lipid was also observed microscopically in

the kidney of male and female dogs. As with the liver, no observable impairment of organ
function was reported.

The only other significant effects reported were the decrease of absolute and relative prostate
weights and the increased covarient testicular weight of high dose male dogs. The 19%
increase of covarient testicular weight of dogs treated 1350 ppm test material is not
biologically significant. However, the approximate 33% and 50% decrease of absolute and
relative prostate weight in dogs treated with 450 ppm and 1350 ppm test material,
respectively, may indicate a marginal threshold effect even though no coroorative
histopathology was reported. No other effects related to dimethomorph treatment were

- reported or found in the data provided by the study authors.

The decrease in prostatic weight reported in the present study is substantiated by a 13-week
dog subchronic feeding study on dimethomorph (MRID 422339-08). In that study, the test
material was fed to male beagle dogs at concentrations of 0, 150, 450 and 1350 ppm. The
only biologically significant effect reported’ was a 60% decrease in the absolute and relative
prostate weight of high dose male dogs.

Although it is questionable whether the highest. dose used in this study (1350 ppm
Dimethomorph) induced clear evidence of toxicity, based on the marginal threshold effect
of an approximate 50% decrease in absolute and relative prostate weight and possible liver
effects, the LOEL is 1350 ppm and the NOEL is 450 ppm.

. STUDY DEFICIENCIES

An assay for serum creatine phosphokinase was not done and the appearance of the urine at
the time of analysis for each dog in the study was not reported. The individual animal data
for clinical signs of toxicity was nof included in the study report. The two clinical tests and
clinical signs of toxicity would add little to the information provided in the report.

June 1994 15

sore LSres