4 SU: DRS. GILL, PIERCE. MCALLISTER, OTR, o7>

Spring 1997 - App. #4721 - William A. Pryor, Ph.D. - Louisiana State
Reviewer (Primary): McAllister
Cigarette Smoke, Beta-Carotene, Alcohol and Cancer

BACKGROUND and PLAN: Pryor is a “living legend" in the world of reactive oxidant
species, particularly those involving free radicals and/or cigarette smoke. For many years, he has
been a proponent of the theory that some low molecular weight water soluble quinone system
radicals in cigarette smoke are responsible for DNA damage, specifically production of single
strand breaks. Since his tar extract system produces superoxide, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl
radicals, the mechanism, along with the identity of the radical remains obscure.

Now comes the famous (or infamous) CARET trial (beta-carotene and retinol efficiency
trial) and the ATBC (alpha-tocopherol-beta-carotene for cancer prevention) study in which it was
revealed that smokers had suffered higher rates of lung cancer with beta-carotene
supplementation. This was confounded by the finding that in fact alcohol intake more clearly
correlated with cancer incidence. It has been suggested by some that at high circulating levels of
beta-carotene in the CARET study, cigarette smoke might actually be interacting with that
molecule to generate oxidizing tumor promoters. Pryor believes he is in a unique position to help
unravel this birdsnest of interacting variables. He proposes five lines of inquiry:

1. Does the aforementioned radical actually cause single strand breaks in DNA? In fact he
has already shown that it does albeit at a tremendously high level of the tar extract.

2. Does his quinone model compound bind to DNA? His model system for these studies is
an aged catechol solution which he has now prepared with carbon-14, He will ascertain its DNA
binding ability.

3. Does BaP bind to DNA in the presence of tar extract but not microsomes? Does BaP
bind to DNA in the presence of microsomes with or without tar extract? Does the binding differ if
normal or ethanol-induced microsomes are used? When binding occurs, what are the effects of
beta-carotene and alpha tocopherol? He has in fact already demonstrated BaP binding, but it is in
the presence of cigarette tar levels of up to 50:1 weight to weight excess over the DNA target.

Can this be meaningful in any physiological sense?

4. Do the micronutrients beta-carotene or alpha-tocopherol bind to DNA in the presence of
microsomes and/or cigarette tar extract? Does the presence of BaP influence the binding of these
micronutrients to DNA? With this series of experments, he hopes to test the hypothesis that
carotenes may react with the radicals and/or oxidants to form species that can add to DNA to give
an adduct that will then affect the subsequent binding of BaP. This is another kitchen sink series
of experiments that could take tremendous amounts of time and when the results are extrapolated
back to in vivo ranges, might or might not have something to do with reality.

5. Do BaP DNA-adducts form in rat hepatocytes exposed to ACT? Are there differences
in BaP DNA/DNA adducts between normal and ethinol-dependent rat hepatocytes? What is the
effect of beta-carotene or alpha-tecopherol? This is actually one of the more interesting questions
that he wants to address and may in fact relate directly to the ethanol finding in the ATBC study.

APPLICANT: Prior is in his mid-sixties; he went directly from high school to the

CTR-CONFIDENTIAL SUBJECT TO P.O. INUS v. PM ET AL. 99CV2496 (SCIENTIFIC PEER-REVIEW MATERIAL)