tf

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Distribution Date: 25 September, 1987

From: Barbro Goodman

Subject: CIGARETTES FOR ANALYTICAL SIDESTREAM RESEARCH

a
Based on discussions between Chemical Research, Analytical
Researcp, and Cigarette Technology personnel, several cigarette
models:were designed specifically for research on sidestream smoke
composition.,The objective for the upcom«ng studies is to
investigat ‘Ere effect of cigarette circumference and Mg (OH) 2
wrapper. I “érder to provide a matrix for the analyses, prototypes
were made at three different circumferences (17 mm, 20 mm and 24.8
mm) each with a= standard commercial wrapper (Kimberly-Clark 156)
and with a 12% Mg(OH)2 wrapper. All the cigarettes were made from
the same batch of tqbacco in a nondiluted 100 mm filtered
configuration.

s
The selected blend was the current project TRIM blend with standard
production components. DBC Brt@ht, DBC Burley, MT Oriental, RLTC
and RL 150B was used. It contained no stems or expanded tobaccos,
so that better looking ultra slim gigarettes could be produced. All
samples had the same casing and afrercut system.

The Hauni lab max was used for all thré€@"circumferences. Cellulose
acetate filters were made with widely varying efficiencies in an
effort to keep the mainstream tar deliveries,within reasonable
levels. The tables attached to this memo give analytical data for
each of the models. As can be seen in Table {, the 17 mm
configuration gave extremely high RTD’s for nonvefitilated
cigarettes. This could have an effect on mainstréam puffing to a
greater extent than for a standard circumference cigarette. Ultra
slim prototypes typically have RTD!s above 6" water fon 45 - 55%

filter ventilation. The variability of the RTD was also greater for
the slim cigarettes.

Tables II and III give the calculated differences in data for each
circumference with the commercial and the low sidestream wrappers
at standard circumference as controls.

SLLE98PL0E