AIDS RESEARCH AND HUMAN RETROVIRUSES
Volame 10, Su 1, 1994
Mary Ann Liebert, Inc, Publishers

 

- ome amis

le a he

 

DNA Inoculation Induces Protective in Vivo Immune
Responses against Cellular Challenge with HIV-1
Antigen-Expressing Cells

BIN WANG,'-] MICHAEL MERVA.? KESEN DANG,? KENNETH E. UGEN,'-] JEAN BOYER!
WILLIAM V. WILLIAMS,!3 and DAVID B. WEINERI-3

ABSTRACT

Direct genetic immunization induces immune responses through the delivery of nonreplicating transcription
units that drive the synthesis of specific foreign proteins within the inoculated host. These proteins are
processed within host cells and through association with relevant MHC antigens that can become the subject of
immune surveillance and elicit immune responses against the pathogen. Direct introduction of genes into mice
has been reported to be antigenic as demonstrated by the use of this technique to develop immune responses
against human growth hormone, influenza proteins, as well as HIV-1 proteins. Most recently the demonstra-
tion of the use of this technology to produce anti-HIV-] immune responses has been reported in nonhuman pri-
mates. Accordingly a more detailed analysis of this technology could generate important insight into the gen-

erality of this approach for immune therapy or vaccine design.

In this article we further our investigation of direct DNA inoculation as a tool for induction of relevant im-
mune responses against HIV-1 in vive. We demonstrate expression of HIV-1 antigens in the muscle of geneti-
cally the animals. Inoculated animals demonstrate significant cytotoxic T cell responses against HIV-1 antigen-
expressing targets. Furthermore, using a novel challenge system, we demonstrate that the majority of
immunized animals can reject lethal, HIV-1 antigen-expressing cell challenge in an antigen-specific manner.
This technology has relevance for the development of immunization strategies against HIV because it provides

for specific antigen production iz vivo without the use of infectious agents.

INTRODUCTION

D”™ THE CouRSsE of natural viral infection, viral proteins
are synthesized within host cells. Some of the viral pro-
teins produced will be processed by the host cell machinery into
peptides, a portion of which will be available for association
with the host cell MHC class | antigens. These processed pep-
lides facilitate assembly of the mature MHC class | complex,
which consists of MHC class [ antigen, processed peptide, and
the nonpaiymarphic protein B.-microglobulin. The assembled
complex is translocated to the cell plasma membrane and can

become the target for immune surveillance, particularly by
CD8-restricted T cells (cytotoxic T cells). Similarly, viral pro-
teins can be shed from the infected cell, collected, and
processed by professional antigen-presenting cells including
both macrophages and dendritic cells. These. professional anti-
gen-presenting cells process the proteins into peptides and as-
semble a portion of these peptides along with the a and § chains
of the MHC class {I pathway, resulting in the mature MHC
class [ antigen complex. The assembled complex is transio-
cated to the ceil plasma membrane and can become the target
for immune surveillance, particularly by CD4-restricted T cells

'Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 3600 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.
Department of Pathology. University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 3600 Spruce Surect, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104.
Htastitute for Biotechnology and Advanced Molecular Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 3600 Spruce Strect,

Philadeiphia, Pennsylvania 19104.

S21

50640162

PAGES