$22

 

(helper T celts). These events together with lymphokines pro-
duced by the anuigen-presenting cells and T helper cells are re-
sponsible for production of diverse T cell imumune responses
central to prolective immunity, Stimulation of CD4-positive T
helper cetls expands the unmune fesponse, stimulating both
attigen-restricted cytotoxic T cells as well as the humoral arm
of the immune response. The T cell-dependent arm of the hu-
Moral immune response mediates specific anti-viral antibody
production, which includes the production of neutralizing and-
bodies, antibodies that caa prevent viral infection of target
cells, as well as ather complex antiviral specific andbody activ-
ilies, Specific MHC class { antigen presentation to CD8-posi-
live T cells expands the immune cell Population that is neces-
sary for destruction of virally infected cells.

The direct intoduction of nonreplicating viral genes into a
host can potentially mimic some aspects of viral infection in
that the synthesis of specific foreign proteins would be accom-
plished in the host cells and the proteins produced would poten-
ually become the subject of immune surveillance.'-} Genetic
immunization with relevant constructs has been reported to in-
duce antibody and T celf and protective immune responses
against influenza proteins in mice.2~! Similarly, relevant hu-
moral and T cei! immunity against HIV-1 bas been induced in
mice and in sonhuman primates, as have been humoral immune
responses in primates through facilitated genetic inoculation
with HIV-1 envelope constructs.15.6

In the present studies we demonstrate that gene inoculation
with HIV-t envelope-encoding vectors induces protein produc-
tion in muscle in vivo. Furthermore, we observed that genetic
immunization induces lymphocyte accumulation in muscle fol-
lowing HIV-1 envelope construct inaculation in vivo. Animals
inoculated with plasmid DNA seroconverted and, in contrast to
recombinant protein-immunized animals, analysis of spleen
Cells demonstrated that the inoculation protocol induced spe.
cific anti-HIV-[ envelope cytotoxic T lymphocytic (CTL) re-
sponses in vive, Inoculated animals were challenged with lethal
tumor cell lines expressing the HIV-t envelope glycaprotein to
evaluate the ability of gene inoculation to induce in vive protec-
tive anticeltular responses. In multiple experiments greater than
90% of animals genetically inoculated with the HIV-1 envelope
completely rejected challenge with HIV-1 envelope -expressing
‘amor cells. [dentically immunized animals were able to resist
parental (i.e. tumor cells not expressing the HIV-1 antigen) tu-
mor challenge. Importantly, animals immunized with recombi-
nant HIV-l envelope proteins demonstrated only low levels of
protection against tumor cell challenge.

These studies suggest that a further evaluation of genetic in-
eculation as an immunization strategy is warranted and could
have importance for both vaccine and immunotherapeutic
strategies, in particular against the human immunodeficiency
virus type L.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Gene inoculation. The DNA construct containing the
gp 60re~4t region, pM 160-26, has been described in a previous
publication.6 The direct injection of this DNA with bupivi-
caine-HCl (a toul of three inoculations) into quadriceps mus-
cles of BALB/c mice was performed as previously describ

  

ASTER PAGES ......

Specifically, ihe quadriceps musctes of BALB/c mice were in-
jected with 100 jut of 0.25% bupivicaine-HC! and 0.1% methyl.
paraben in isotonic NaCl, using 4 27-gauge needle. Twenty.
four hours after bugivicaine injection, 100 xg of the DNA
Construct was injected into the same region as the bupivicaine
injection. The same amount of DNA construct was injected
three times at biweekly intervals and then the mice were al-
lowed lo rest for 1 month prior to analysis or tumor challenge,

Recombinant gp160 immunization. BALB/c mice were im-
munized with | Wg of glycosylated recombinant (HIV-tA0B)
gpl60 (MicroGeneSys, Inc., Meriden, CT) in Freund's com-
plete adjuvant followed by three boosters (1 Wg of gp160 each)
in Freund's incomplete adjuvant at 2-week intervals,

Assay of antiserum binding to gp160 and rgp4! by ELISA,
Recombinant gpi60 (tgp160) and recombinant gp4l (rgp41)
were purchased from American BioTechnologies, Inc.
(Cambridge, MA). Fifty microliters of tgpl60 (3 ug/ml) or
repdl (3 fg/ml) was adsorbed ontg microtiter wells and stan-
dard enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were per-
farmed as we have previously described +?

Immuno histochemical Staining of muscle sections. Toe mus-
cle cryosections were made from excisions of tissue from the
injection site, and quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen. Sections
were reacted with a pool of murine anti-HIV-1 gpléd, or gp4t
monoclonal antibodies (gifts fom R. Attanasio, Southwest;
Foundation) followed by detection with a goat anti-mouse
IgG-horseradish peroxidase (ARP) antibody conjugate.
Hematoxylin was used as the counterstain. :

Genetic immunization induces cytotaxic T cell responses. |
Spleen cells (10 x 108) from normal or immunized mice primed |
14 days earlier were incubated for 7 days with 10 x 106 irradi-
ated (3000 rads) syngeneic splenocytes that had been infected
with recombinant gp160 (vpel6} vaccinia virus (10 PFU/cell).!
Vaccinia-infected targets were prepared by infecting 3 x 106
p815 cells for 16 br at 37°C, The target cells were labeled with
Naz! CrO, (100 pCi/ml) for 90 min and used to incubate the
sdmulated splenocytes for 6 br at 37°C, Cytotoxic T lympho- .
cytes were tested at various effector-to-target (E:T) ratios, de- .
pending on cell isolation. Supematants were harvested and
counted on an LKB (Bromma, Sweden) CliniGamma ¥ counter.
Percent specific lysis was determined by the formula: 100 x
(experimental release - spontaneous release (maximum re-
lease — spontaneous telease)]. Maximum release was deter-
mined by lysis of targets in 1% Triton X-100.

Tumor chatlenge cells. SP2/0 cells were originally obtained
from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Rockville,
MD). Analysis of the SP2/0 cell line and transfectants with an-
tibodies to I-A¢ (MK-D6, from the ATCC) revealed 48% pos-
itive staining, whereas staining for H-24 (34-[-25, from the
ATCC) revealed 24-43% positive Staining by flow cytometry.
Cells were grown in RPMI-1640 with added penicillin/strepto-
mycin, L-glutamine (all from GIBCO, Grand Island, NY), and
10% fetal bovine serum (Sigma. St. Louis, MO). SP2/0 cells
(1 x 109) were passaged through BALB/c mice and then cloned,
tegrown, and then repassaged, and so on, until a reproducible
clonal tumor cel! line was obtained. On inoculation of 3 x 106
tumor cells into mice, 100% of the inoculated animals devel-
oped lethal tamors in a 7- to 8-week period, The SP2/0 cell line
was then used as the transfection farget in later experiments ex-
actly as described in Results.