megpa | megp 160 control

FIG. 1. Immunohistochemistry staining of muscle section. The muscle crydsections were made from muscles excised from the
injection site, and quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen, (A) Sections were stained with a pool (diluted 1:50) of mouse anti-HIV-1 gpa
monoclonal antibodies: (B) sections were stained with a pool (diluted 1:50) of mouse anti-HIV-1 BP160 monoctonal antibodies:
(C) sections were stained with goat anti-mouse antibodies conjugated with HRP. The secondary antibody is a 1:200 dilution of the
goat anti-mouse [gC-HRP antibody. Hematoxylin was used as the counterstain, Original magnification: x200 (top row), xd00
(bottom row),

26 (Fig. 2). Thirty-two percent lysis of relevant targets was ob-

Expression of HIV envelope proteins in vivo. Genetic inocu- served at a 30/1 effector-to-target ratio and specific CTL re-

lation is in theory dependent on the ability of injected DNA to sponses were observed at LO/1 effector-to-target ratios, We also

be transcribed and translated into protein ia vivo, We sought to immunized mice with soluble gp!60 from HIV-L/DIB isolate.

demonstrate the ability of the pM160 vector to drive relevant

antigen production in vive. One hundred micrograms of

Q ; PM 160-26 plasmid was injected into the quadriceps muscle of

u" BALB/c mice 24 hr after the muscies had been treated with

[hing | 0.25% bupivacaine. Seventy-two hours after inoculation the

OK? muscle was excised and quickly frozen in liquid nitrogen.

Sections were prepared and mounted, and slides were reacted

with a pool of murine and-HIV-1 gp!60, or gp¢i monoclonal

antibodies. The specific reactivity was determined by indirect

immunohistochemistry. using a goat anti-mouse HRP-conju-

gated detection system. Hematoxylin was used as the counter-

stain, Both gp160 and gpd reactivities were detected in the

muscle alang possible needle tracts (Fig. 1). These data demon-

Strate that gp160-specific antigen can be expressed in muscle

, through direct inaculation of gp160-expressing gene cassettes
in vivo,

CTL analysis in inoculated animals. Following three inocu-
lations, 100% of pM160-Z6-immunized animals seroconverted.
The titers of ail animals tested were above 1/500 (10 of tO ani- FIG. 2. Cytotoxic T cell release assay. A single-cell suspen-
mals). Previously we have reported on the ability of similar env sion of splenocytes was obtained from mice 14 days after injec-
Constructs (o induce antibody and T helper responses. We have tion with 100 peg of PM160-26 DNA (©) and then stimulated
now focused on the ability of the animals to develop specific wi the the pe 6Oee eg MMPELS vavcinia ants, which
CTL responses following direct DNA inoculation. Two weeks ¢ ™ in Of Hiv |. Warious amount o
following the one DNA inoculation, animals were sacrificed  StiMulated celis were incubated with 5 x 104 51Cr-labeled target

: cells infected with VPEL6. Alternatively, a single-cell suspen-
and splenocytes were prepared as described above and primed sion of splenacytes was obtained from mice 14 days after im-
with vaccinia-gp 160 target ceils ia vitro. Seven days later, the munization with | jtg of recombinant soluble gpt60 protein in
splenocytes were plated at various effector-to-target ratios on Freund's complete adjuvant (A), and then splenocytes were
Cr-labeled vaccinia-gp 160 (IMB isolate)-infected p815 syn- stimulated as described above. Single-cell suspension splena-
geneic target celts. Lysis was scored as described in Materials cytes from taive mice were used as a negative control group

and Methods. We observed clear evidence that cross-reactive (x).

RESULTS CTL responses were induced in mice inoculated with pM160- (»)

 

i

% Spacific CTL Reteana

 

181 St tat 1
eT

   

 

50640164