526.

PM 160-26-vaccinated animals, animals inoculated with recom-
binant gpi60 in adjuvant did not demonstrate significant CTL
activity even though these animals were inoculated with 4 bo-
mologous genotype of HIV-I envelope proteins.

The utility of the anti-gp160 immune responses has not been
previously examined in an in vive system. For HIV-1 antigens
there is no convenient system for investigations of the ability of
a particular HIV antigen to offer protection against lethal chai-
lenge. Chimpanzees offer a relevant model for infection stud-
ies, as do the recent SHIV systems. In neither system does
pathology result (rom infectious challenge.

In the present study we have developed a tumor challenge
imodel system to examine the ability of the anti-HIV immune
tesponses induced by a particular immunization regimen to
conuol HIV-1 antigen-bearing cells in vive. Multiple parame-
‘ers of immunity are typically engaged in tumor rejection, in-
sluding both cellular and humoral isununity.!-'3 Thus, an im-
munization strategy against a tumor-borne antigen that elicits
rejection of the tumor challenge in effect establishes a protec.
live in vive anticetlular response and could serve as a simple
model for optimization of a particular immune technology prior
'o analysis in more precious testing systems. This model does
not address ail aspects of a viral infection or challenge system.
In particular, the ability of virus to spread in a cell-free mode
and infect additional ceils, as welll as the ability of a virus to uti-
lize a latent state to escape immune detection, are not repre-
sented in this model. However, not all human retroviruses are
thought to spread infection easily in a cell-free manner.
HTLV-1 infection in particular may preferentially utilize a cell-
to-cell mode of transmission for viral spread.*'4 Similarly, in-
fection of HIV-! may utilize both cell-free and cell-associated
modes of spread in infected individuals. Additionally, initial
Challenge in natural infection by a sexual transmission route
may be through a ceil-associated virus.

in the studies reported bere we observed that 85% of pM160-.
inoculated animals could compietely reject lethal tumor chal-
lenge when the tumors expressed HIV-1 £p 160 glycoproteins.
The ability to control lethal challenge was antigen but not tu-
mor specific because challenge with the parental tumor cell line
aS not protective. These results suggest that the facilitated
DNA inoculation protocol that we have developed may be use-
ful in the generation of immune responses that can eliminate
HIV-L-infected cells in vivo, In the specific case of HIV-| the
most likely targets would be cells that were actively producing
virus (viral factories). In theory, such a strategy could lower the
viral load of the patient as well as prolong the asymptomatic
phase of viral infection by decreasing the amounts of infectious
virus produced.

This is the first study we are aware of that addresses the abil-
ity of a gene inoculation protocol to induce immune responses
that may have relevance against oncogenic cell challenge in
vivo, As such, the resuits suggest that the demonstrated ability
of gene inoculation technology to induce broad immune re-
sponses including humoral and cellular immunity against spe-
cific antigens can eliminate cells that express specific pathogen
Of oncogenic antigens, Ultimately, the demonstration of protec-
Yon against pathogenic lymphoid cell challenge has implica-
Uons for the control of autoimmune diseases, in which specific
antigen receptors may serve as appropriate targets for gene in-
oculation strategies.

 

WiAot et FAGES

     

 

The studies reported ttere combined with our other work!”
Support further investigation into the study of gene inoculation
strategies against HIV-1 antigens with the allimate goal of de-
veloping novel vaccine/immune therapeutic reagents for clini-
cal use to control the virus responsible for AIDS.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

This work was supported in part by grants from the NIH to
D.B.W.; grants from the NIH to W.V,W. and from the Pediatric
AIDS Foundation and the National Foundation for Infectious
Diseases. K.E.U. is an American Foundation for AIDS
Research-Pediatric AIDS Foundation Scholar. J.B. is an NIH
Post Doctoral Fellow.

REFERENCES

{. Tang D-C, DeVit M, and Johnston SA: Genetic immunization is a
simple method foe eliciting an immune tesponse. Nature (London)
1992;356:152~154, :
Ulmer J8, Doanelly J, Parker SE, Rhodes GH, Feigner PL, Dwarki
VL, Gromkowski SH, Deck R, DeVitt CM, Friedman A, Haws LA,
Leander KR, Marinez D, Perry H, Shiver JW, Montgomery D, and
Liu MA: Heterologous protection against influenza by injection of
DNA encoding a viral protein, Science 1993:259: 1745-1749,
3. Wang B, Ugen KE, Srikantaa ¥, Agadjanyan MG, Dang K, Refaeli
Y, Sato Al, Boyer J, Williams WV, and Weiner DB: Gene inocula-
tion generates immune responses against human immunodei-
ciency virus type 1. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1993:90:4156~4160, .\
4, Robinson HL, Fynan EF, and Webster RG: Use of direct DNA in-
ocufations to elicit protective immune responses. Vaccines 93
1993; Cold Spring Harbor Press:311~315. 4
5. Wang B, Ugen EK, Sckantan V, Agaduanyan M, Dang K, Sato Al,
Refaeli Y, Boyer J, Williams WV aad Weiner DB: Genetic immu-
nization: A novel method for vaccine development against HIV. In:
Vaccines 93. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, New York. 1993, pp. 143-150.
Wang B, Boyer J, Seikantan V, Coney L, Carrano R, Phan C, |.
Merva M, Dang K, Agadjanyan M, Gilbert L, Ugen K, Williams
YW, and Weiner DB: DNA inoculation induces neutralizing im-
mune tesponsey against human immunodeficiency virus type | in
mice and nonhuman primates. DNA Cell Biol 1993; 12:799~805,
7. Ugen KE, Ziegner U, Agadjanyan MG, Satre MAR, Srikantaa V,
Wang B, Refacli Y, Sato A, Williams WY, and Weiner DB:
Generation of monoclonal antibodies against the amino fegion of
gpl20 which clicits antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. In:
Vaccines 93. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
Harbor, New York, 1993, pp. 215-222. _ . .
8. Moss B: Use of vaccinia virus vectors for development of AIDS
vaccines, AIDS 1988;5103-S105,
9. Wang B, Ugen KE, Hall W, Kapian MH, Dang K, Seikantan V,
Sato Al, Williams WV, and Weiner DB: Malecular cloning, ex-
pression and biological characterization of an HTLY-IT envelope
slycoproteia which induces lymphocyte fusion, AIDS Res Hum
Retroviruses 1993 (in press).
Fishchinger PJ: Prospects for reducing virus-associated human — -~_.,
cancers by antiviral vaccines. J Natl Cancer Inst Mono 1992;
12:109=114,
. Hui KM, Sim T, Foo TT, and Oei A: Tumor rejection mediated by
transfection with allogeneic class [ histocompatibility gene. J
Immunol 1989;143:3835-3843,

  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  

10,

50640167