mo . - VIES ¢ 4 Nosa2 P.29/23
‘ 17-JAN. 209m = t7idd meee AEE nthe 8 OL? 62797 90 ‘OO 9a41216197000 W T31 ls, ape. 3

ao Mug fot,” CUR uae VUoF

 

4
The Times
Teoreday, January 13, 2000
Page 33
, * b ad ae, . di ] e S oke
Signals for going on € the courts, Naw, in i 4
“A eee me down consumpeion’, But con- if ies secon
“on bot we dere want to talk: Soxrip muntia the shate a jury & © comuider
Carl Mortished Bye Newt.al orm Tie cham i ging doen, uTades end de naan
finds cutwhy = Xn anh chert mete io” lenge 1 eee
: = yf the - em ha potentially hun
BAT wants more peated oki | meu ioe Soma aree | eto
: hear reraligdiig in she | na. all soureod stroud. Sep in . dramstances,
: OVErMINeNt oonrs, va recent | forward the Internet, an ideal Beasptnan might ba forgiven
it ful challenge 10 the | Bpporunity expand Ole par- lenking around for some
. controls Goverment early Pa ' pther producto gel), Burinves-
1 eee eno BU adverising restrictions. we. marke According (2 meee nd BAT a fon
} . on. smoking get mean aight vith oneamional fy by-riight ro- a arene rh i wo
eet i Beau: et Spano ny Wr
— dont you et Gan dnucicne scot ONG a pre Aine) St tar tac at rs
\ iremer? ey r Govern nevis » Ts dietrib Fiiton years Gime i wal be fete
| Martin, mart hasebigeake mtheto lors from selling to minors Bg hae ene Ih,
is exacative of BAT. ia baer business and clay and geing Ws into frouble, ip 1956, wet set az the
tp shore Ip Scques- resents icing Ucated a Te tomifols ‘arc just ; objective ot ferg-
ton. of drugdeaiec at ths schoo! gare, « Tolthere. Weare toaind = est Imemational tobaom eon
{ gofht appeal wo ¢ Broughron retogtica the — ayalomnakesurethe jaiernet ‘pany th i
j fas ben dessracl «=o cmon «about “smoking: . San be used jn a recponahic RAT Is gunning for Philip
. | Wwinvestors. anlences = among underiéa, “We pro || WAY © chur no ome without in. buy Setyorng
_é te > “Well, Gag _ putting the age upto 18 46 Proper access is eribora Man may take
he saye, “Tell ns mace *Naw e that is whet is in tteould bag more than a bic af exere spend
shank" . most countries, The UK Isaut {ne solution ~ targeting adult Pemienr, The £5
, onalimbatis. burchey want SMokers directly without Billion rekeover of Roshmans
saya hat BAT hes heen mull- changes. They ttink becauae and controvariy ofad- in Means tht BAT now
+ Ing over the but bis atd- the repost! tones {ror Ge > veedsing in public. Is almost one cut of every
. lemains am Cig- = bases Induscy. theye must be irony is thar BAT, 5 Six cigarwctes
| Aneta aver the Web gra sore devious mative.” keen supporter of tha people's
| Gaxhatheares an opportune Couldtherebeanclementof Fight to to-wmobe, deg AT used the oppomus
.% Another weapon wich =o mlschiel? BATs proposcd 18 Peralely Wants the Govern nity w close dawn cigs
* which tha Government. dec- limit scinehow became linked © ™eni fa ewercive more contrel, weno plan, redee
yes fobbyins and lawyers’ to the Government's pins to 20t/es6. Inaddition to.aga tim~ ing costs and boosting
could beat up nircedy redux the homoreruml age of 188, Broughton is challenging onfft tharein. The Prvacess epuld
‘orujsed glam thaz is BAT. samsent to 16. But behind the We Government on another ta Teplicetet and Grou
Samrch the Insernet for the sniping is x larger vm that hoo uber, "We dont rhink fs keeping a watching brie( on
word tod sou wi Broughton bel the Gov that kde should emake and Significant tabnasg man:
ape cal mh ersment is duddng. ft has to wemink jtaresre ther things blashirer. lnchudew the te-
* manyen Naive Amerianzes- dovwath civil Hbertics encieou- Ashe ecey it, the antlsmek- —_falled onern to intervene In *
* coum. Big | Discos aay, Notre ron mls 2 ean bi a ono oS Ti ata na
‘ . se, FDL .
‘Ther gambit is a taxder Boing wana and at hema big BY me farm of = huss har ie bea fy
pal, Spread |= TT, As Broughton polnw rT. Phillip Morris. Galleher Spanish have now crested a:
a of ‘adtchore takes 006, the Government has the di + Warlddepding cgar ampany.
“a ts and this beptof both warlds, and Imperial. fs the sstuton. * "They have not elated this er 'h
Sand H pomedung, ar ar nation Pre sulig of iment asta me ond sme | could Bee a eae -
rave sege— in thed
exnmem Has yet Tous fe running it The UK Govern- strle] voxesg w ehiléren, snd rete Deine eee
smoke sigralé, ment makes foote money cul ova staqutery rem ta big to to be a world leader in gars
BATS chief has ner of lobaccoin this country than NE diggest ev; chan a fri in py
breghed dic whhinin. BAT does workdwide.” Te ry. retin." id BAT be a buy
ieee bat {5 setecaly cur- ; ir abe Chanealiat doce wal ér? “We are intrested in ery
. aber, 1 oharcn is é gpiden ea robacro, én of chess oppormmnities,” sayz
j mama with butpee: basis gonse, but the Trass- ( Zen, Hanered by Broughton.
Thain. enmtipenice,. Beer ‘wry is force-Foucding it. | ti fears and a, s 1 an ig. hg to
Mijavorbeirtoutes wince ae bocep duty have view £ gonad (ihe has ans a and ang oe
cules, Downing Syed, door wide © Sralg pers o- household prediuct manufac: stubs cut his algar co, devel.
Der tobaden, & seen, fe a BAT debnsitls nay per fas aled ae he pment that may force
sand connctabide,  centof the market. And amug- .| lias halved in La months, ters ta retfunk thelr relations
have porm defibersie. sling iy Siewing tohaeco cor | ing “org tabs £7 billion with ‘the industry, "We, dont -
y : Thay say: summpeion! figures. “The Cov gqnaller tn Hoes da, a olaikec expect the Goverment like NE
wa ate kame login wee ne in’ AN ES vy ig wendy eae ee . By hy PED, eon,
may have fits chojes...
Extracted by ine Graadalat Monitoring Campany, Tie canlonts of Ihe pubications from which those eatracts have been takan are copyright Werke unc!
without peor permisaion or save as permiced oy statute May no! be copled er ctherwme rapmedveed (even fer interna! pumowes) or resold.

21020202