‘MESSENGER 0 yy
“Madisonville, Ky. - |
‘Decémber 27, "1962

 

  
   
    

Of Family - Farm

ot Tobacco may be providing a “last strong

‘ ~ hold for the traditional “family farm” in the

United States—an institution which THE
MESSE NGER hopes will never disappear. ~
: Stephen E. Wrather, director of the tobac-
co division of the U.S. Department of Agri-

ue culture’s marketing service, made. the point

~ the other day that while other types. of farms —
‘are disappearing at a rapid rate, uprooting
“families they once supported, tobacco farms:

“> have actually increased in number. This may

wo surprise some, but here are the figures:

“8 Nearly 3,000, 000 farms have disap-
oa - peared since 1919, about 45 per cent of
‘. the total. In 1919 there were 6,500,000
US. farms. Last year there were only
3 800,000. ;

“+1 Tobacco farms meanwhile have reg:
< "istered a gain of 21,000 in number since
 1919—from 496, 000 that year to Slt

. 000 now.

nn “The decline in: “farms, Director ‘Wrather
- . pointed out in his piece in TOBACCO NEWS,
’ has been steady except for a slight upturn
- from 1928 to 1935, when the depression

 

~- brought about a return to the land. After

that the downturn began at a heavier pace

.,. than ever as farmers moved to cities for
'.<. jobs in business and industry.

_ Nearly all types of farms have been af-
-" fected. Here are a few examples of the de- |

oo clines among farms. for the major cash crops,

_- from 1919 to 1959:

Corn farms dropped in number from
4,900,000 to 1,900,000. .
Wheat farms declined from 2,200,-
000 to 931,000.
Cotton farms are down from 1,900,-
000 to 499,540.
'. Sugar beet farms dropped from. 47,-
0006 to 23,700.
. Among the major cash crops, only
soybean and. tobacco farms have shown
an increase. .

We are glad the USDA man mentioned
soybeans, which have come to be.a most im-
portant crop in our own county and ‘section.
The rise in soybean farms came with dis-
covery of new product uses for the beans, —
such as soybean. oils for food: products and

' paints. We have never been able to find out —
“+o if it is true or not, but we were told once -

“~ Upon a time that bugles, evefi, are made of |
. Soybeans, and such a development would cer-

“Tobaceo A Mainstay: -

 

. iety of things other than fuel, and when a”

, ae for possible new. uses.

  
 
   
  

"he accented the tobacco angle rather than ~
the soybean angle. Mr. Wrather allowed that
',the movement away from the farm to the

mn technology and “better employment oppor-

"tunities in business and industry,” though it —
“should be said that manv who quit the farm
«and flock into the Big Town for job oppor-

"oo" tunity meet” disappointment ana someuiucs
“he : frustration. :

 

tee “there was a drop of 4,000.000 or so from.

°1950 to 1958, as has been reported many’
“times. since, and commonly it is said that
‘.. mechanization, better seed and fertilizer and

‘the drop in manpower needed in farming.

; . dustry has required more manpower in years

7 chines, and if the signs do not deceive every-
body, the role of the modern miracle machine

--< vesting. the situation is different from wheat,

“ does most of the work. With tobacco, the
_ leaves must be picked by hand. at just the
- right time. and individual plants may be  _

  

. tainly be.no miracle in these days when good ©
“old soft coal can be turned into a vast var- °

.. lowly strawpile is scanned with eager eve
- by chemists and engineers: and such, look:

In his piece in TOBACCO NEWS, in whieh

‘city results largely from changes in farm —

: In terms of people who man the farms,’ os

‘improved methods have all contributed to
On the other hand, rapidly-expanding in-

gone by, yet in this area, too, we find changes.
Mechanization has advanced rapidly in most
lines, automation has replaced men with ma-

will grow larger and larger as the years go
by.

In the farming process, Director Wrather
‘points out, tobacco remains a hand-tailored
-operation, compared with other major cash
crops. It requires more man-hours of per-
‘sonal attention than any other, and in har- ~

corn, soybeans and such. where machinery

checked a half-dozen times or more to make
sure the leaves are ripe.

Still, while: personal attention is still the
byword for the tobacco farmer, improved
methods and equipment have enabled him to
get bigger crop yields and a higher cash re-
turn per acre.

The TOBACCO NEWS piece pointed out
that the number of farm families who depend
‘on tobacco. runs a. good deal higher than the
actual number of. tobacco farms, since medi-
um-size and larger acreage allotments con-
tribute !o the support of two, three or more
tenant families. All in all, the piece asserts,
the historical: place of tobacco in American
agriculture is. expected to remain stable,
which is a hope which a lot of Hopkins coun-
tians will share, for tobacco is still an im-
portant crop in our farm economy:

 

O2TEPSEOOT