It is difficult to overstate the advantages of a full-time
neutral industry representative carrying out this kind of
cevelopment work. Although company public affairs officers
with reqional responsibilities have spent much time on
establishing and developing NMAs, this work is only part of
their functions and, unfortunately, their neutrality in
these matters is not always taken for granted.

The Board is therefore requested to approve assignment of a

company representative on secondment to INFOTAB to cover
Asia and to cemmit their member companies to help introcuce
him in the region and support his role.

Paper Presenting Smoking and Health Overview
(originally referred to as a "white paper”)...
Imperial offered at the last Board meeting to draft a short

paper that might serve as a basic approach to health
issues, , .

NF.

At the same meeting, BAT's Research Director made a
presentation which ‘has since been revised and on which BAT
wish to comment at the meeting on April -2.

It appears that neither of these papers would meet the
needs expressed in the Secretary General's proposal at the
last Board meeting; however one or the other of these
papers, if acceptable to all members, would be of some help
to NMAs (ana the Secretariat) and would therefore be a bic
step forward.

Comments by many NMAsS - and company representatives - to
the Secretary General make it clear that they need
urgently, at the very least, an answer to give. to
covernment officials and other opinion leaders when asked
for their views or for information on smoking end health.
As agreed by many participants in a recent industry
gathering: "We need a common policy of all companies
involved <in INFOTAB>."

‘Board members are therefore asked to give their full

‘support and their. ‘companies’ best efforts. to producing and
agreeing a basic. Statement or overview paper on health
issues.

Relations with International Non-Governmental and iInter-

Governmental Organizations

3.4.1 Non-governmental organizations

A basic ‘objective of INFOTAB from its inception has
been to gain support from other international
associations which share common interests.

i

SHEO £E90S