bee

od

objectives; activities, resources. and materials.

CORESTA and the Technology Trenefer Issue

Nultinational tobacco companies have ~ - been accused of
hearding technology that is. needed by nationally-cwned
private and public tobacco manufacturers in the deveicping
countries... Yet any tobacco organization can join CORISTA
and obtain much technical information through participation
in CORESTA working groups and through access to COPESTA
documentation.

Nember companies are asked to consider whether their
support of CORESTA can be suitably noted when they address
the technology transfer . issue.

In addition, ‘could member ‘companied ® give any further
special support to CORESTA for “program designed
specifically i:to help ..companies . ‘owned by nationals in

‘developing countrieg, and obtain: suitable credit?

this “euestion- is. “abked | ‘of “INFOTAB © Board’ “members on the
assumption: that they... would ‘make the final decision in their

respective..companies :on' a CORESTA ‘policy’ matter such as
this. If the idea is worth pursuing, ‘follow-up might be
undertaken by the INFOTAB member now serving on the CORESTA
Council.

~Herchandising™ INEOTAB in Member Companies

' There have been. “many - ‘indications. that it’ would be useful to

procuce an information, package that “could be used te
disseminate knowledge in member companies about INFOTAB's

Such an information ‘program would be aimed chiefly at staf
and line managers, . at. members' headquarters and around: he
world, who are involved to some degree in industry
decision-making and action on smoking issues.

This program” Would” “be “designed tO “generate greater
awareness of snoking;,.issues, .of the need for industry

: ' Seooperation to; cact, early, of the.. "kinds, of materials and

“strategies that-might be adapted for local‘use, and also to

stimulate the: :flow:of information ‘to INFOTAB and therefore

'around. the: world, particularly from ‘those countries where

there is no NMA. :-

The contents of the package would emphasize materials,

‘Btrategies and.-resources that are available from INFOTAB,

anda successful action by NMAS.

The Secretariat: _plans to prepare the kind of package that
can be presented by member company managers at meetings of
line and staff. The Secretariat will also welcome
opportunities for its senior level staff to give the
presentation on invitation. It might also be adaptable for
showing to NMAs, their staffs and members.

 

 

£R£0 Enos