aks

3.4.2 Inter-aqove

~ Sm

Good relations have been established with advertising
and related associations (EAAA/EAT and IAA), ane
EAAA/EAT have actively aided the industry.

The International Chamber of Commerce gave the

Secretary General a very warm reception during a.

recent visit (see 2.5.6) and otfered to help the
industry on matters of common = interest. They
suggested ways in which relations could be established
and maintained (e.qa. INFOTAB participeticn in a
relevant working party), similar te cocperation they
have already with other industry associations.

The ICC's principal role of interest to INFOTAB is its
accreditation to the UN and its activities related to
that status. — oe Fa ES .

Assuming member companies would like. to build a
relationship with the ‘ICC. and. explore -with them
cooperation on specific issues, the Secretary General
plans to follow up her first visit to determine the
most efficient and effective way for INFOTAB to take
advantage of the ICC's desire to cooperete,.

There are other natural alliances which the Secretary
General proposes te establish, assuming the
associations in question can be motivated to cooperate
and can be helpful, e.g. ETV - European Tobacco
Wholesalers Association, European Confederation of
Tobacco Retailers, and Liaison Committee of the Hotel
and Catering Industry of the European Community (re
public smoking issue).

Although it seems unlikely at this time that the
European Tobacco Forum can be of help in the mediun
term, the Secretary General plane to maintain contact
with this group in case an opportunity for cooperation
should erise.

rnmental oraanizations

It seems clearly ‘advisable to continue indirect
contacts with the UN’ and related agencies and with key

government missions to the UN. We should also create

new opportunities to aid-‘certain ‘missions in their
defense of tobacco, and a plan’for one project of this
kind will be presentcd at the next Aavisory Group
meeting.

As far as the EEC is concerned, the Secretary General
has one informal contact in the Consumer Protection
Service, and one or two others in this cCepartment
could prove useful in the future.

 

9n€O EfROS