Mr. R.E. Smith
Mr. R.M. Spight
February 18, 1992
Page Three

Advertising Heavy - up: Local Support has been allocated
towards a sharply targeted OOH buy in highly developed CARLTON
Zip Code areas (i.e. the best of the best).

Media Trial: We are presently exploring costs and feasibility
to run regional cut-ins in W-3 to feature our $1 pack/carton
trial/reward coupon creative. Costs are budgeted under
Miscellaneous/Contingency-Marketing (See Exhibit II for detail).

per- 7° meg of

Promotions: The national 1-W-1 UP promotion will kick off our
W-3 Assault effort. Members of the S/O will work the CARLTON
effort as a co-primary with the Menu.

yee EFFORTS

A national recommendation (Primary Coverage) to support CARLTON
1 tS 3 with a classic black lighter (1 pack) and Rand McNally Atlas
Leth (w/Spa & Report overlay) carton promotion during the June.1992
@ “hie three week clean up period is circulating for approval.
pet
Accelerated Coverage Team: The Western Field A.C.T. team will
assist the S/O during the initial UP coverage to penetrate the
50-99 CARLTON opportunity universe and obtain new CARLTON

distribution.

A.C.T. members will work the coverage £6 (August 24) $1.50 2
pack (coupon) promotion in highly developed CARLTON opportunity
calis. Moreover, another 4 A.C.T. members will be pulled from
the remaining 4 fields to help assist the Assault blitz. The
W-3 S/O will not work this effort -- it will be run exclusively
by the A.C.T. team in 100+ volume cpportunity outlets.

A.D.D. Promotion: The W-3 Assauit effort will also be supported
by a regional A.D.D. pack promotion to obtain trial oriented
displays during the 7/13-8/21 (coverage #5) period. A separate
recommendation will circulate for approval.

Couponing: Throughout the Assault effort, the $/O and A.C.T.
members will actively use a $1 consumer conversion (pack and
carton) coupon to convert competitive smokers. Three
conversions per day will be stressed.

KX. Point-of-Sale: A full arsenal of UP/DOWN material will be
© provided to the organization. The W~3 S/O and A.C.T. members
will vigilantly place CARLTON P.0.S. to increase our in-store
presence and reinforce our Lowest tar position.

 

970151582
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I