OPERATIONS

In 1998, PM USA purchased and installed in Primary Processing (Richmond) six de-stoner
separators, the purpose of which was to separate out from a tobacco stream any large non-tobacco
related material and any large clumps of tobacco. Given problems that have arisen, we are currently
providing advice on a possible breach of warranty action against either the equipment manufacturer
or the engineer who provided design and installation services.

SALES ;
As previously reported, we have terminated our agreement with Integrated Solutions, one of
our third party installers of fixtures. After termination, Integrated Solutions filed for bankruptcy, —
and we are currently handling a number of disputes that have arisen in connection with our former
relationship with Integrated.

We recently completed redrafting our standard form carrier agreement based on changes in
the law that have occurred, and our experiences with carriers, since the agreement was first created.
The Transportation group in Richmond is ready to begin using the new agreement for carriers that
transport product. We will now modify the form agreement for the group in the NYO which is
responsible for arranging the transportation of promotional items.

Weare also assisting Customer Service and Distribution in connection with its effort to
develop procedures related to the import of tobacco and various machine parts. We will also assist
CS&D in preparing a form agreement for use with customs brokers.

There have also been a number of other sales matters, including drafting various
documentation and giving advice on various carrier, third party installation and other issues.

MISCELLANEOUS

We believe that the Superslims trial is nearly completed. Trial will reconvene on April 9 for
PM's final witness on the wilful infringement issue.

A number of our lawyers continue to assist the team that is re-negotiating our Strategic
Supply Agreement with Schweitzer-Mauduit.

We are coordinating PM USA’s effort to assess its ability to manage special situations in
accordance with the PM Companies Special Situation Management Policy and related Competencies
Grid. We have assembled a cross-functional team to perform the assessment with the assistance of
independent consultants. We have also helped prepare a current readiness report that was sent to

Corporate. 2069625946

In the action against the company’s fidelity bond insurers (Philip Morris Companies Inc. v.
Federal Insurance Company, et al.), Justice Gammerman ruled favorably to PM on two outstanding
motions. First, PM moved to dismiss the insurers’ third party actions filed against the various
vendors, their employees and the former PM employees involved in the bid rigging conspiracy. The
court granted PM’s motion and dismissed the parties, thus simplifying (and streamlining) the
insurance action. Second, the insurers filed a motion for summary judgment against PM, arguing