As previously reported, the Nelco bankruptcy case was recently converted by the court
from Chapter 11 to Chapter 7. The trustee for the estate has informed us that Nelco’s creditors would
be stepping back from their investigation into potential claims against Philip Morris in connection
with the Reiners fraud and that the trustee would be handling this investigation. The trustee also
informed us that he was prepared to accept the last offer of documents PM made to the creditor
group in connection with their subpoena.

R&D/PATENTS/LITIGATION - -

We continue to support the litigation effort in a number of cases and investigations.

We conducted right-to-use investigations on new incentive items and on items in
inventory reduction programs for various brands and promotions. We continue to advise PM
International on incentive items for overseas distribution and on patent issues involving our major
machine suppliers. We advised PM USA on vendor confidentiality issues, and continue to negotiate
related contracts.

We continue to prepare, file and prosecute U.S. and foreign patent applications.
MARKETING . -
Marlboro Unlimited

We continued to participate in meetings of a Marlboro Unlimited control group to analyze

issues presented by suppliers to Rader Railcar, Inc. and implement transition plans related to the

termination of our construction agreement with Rader.

We continued participating in the negotiation of an agreement with Transportation and
Transit Association, Inc. for the assessment and completion of the Marlboro Unlimited train.

We met with representatives of Amtrak to discuss the possibility of leasing Amtrak
Superliner railcars for purposes of conducting Marlboro Unlimited Trips. _

Litigation
We participated in prep sessions and mock depositions for marketing and marketing
research 30(b)(6) witnesses .

Consumer Product Safety Commission

We completed our plan to phase out the voluntary consumer withdrawal of the Players
Navy Cut lighter purchased from Polyflame and have been advised by the CPSC that they have
closed their file on the matter.

¥héS296902

Project Beta

We continue to attend Regulatory and Beta Team meetings on a regular basis.