PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.

C89-09067

INTER-OFPFPICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Mr. James Myracle Date: August 17, 1989
From: G. N. Yatrakis

Subject: Flavor Development Weekly Summary - Week of August 14, 1989

PROJECT ART:

A low pressure trial was run at the Bermuda Hundred Factory. Four (4)
loops of filler were extracted at 2400 psi, 140 °F and 150 M/M. Extraction
efficiency met the 97% target. Cigarettes will be requested in the
low/ultra~low, KS/100mm and regular and menthol versions.

Bermuda Hundred Modules IIA and IIB achieved targeted extraction
efficiency. Models were made and subjectively evaluated from both.
Subjective approval was given for both Module IIA and IIB for production of
BERM, CIG 8 and CIG &M filler.

A large-scale casing trial using 8$C-392 pilot plant filler has been
completed in Semi-works with a new casing formulation (8611-78-1).
Cigarettes have been requested with aftercut (8mg) for comparisons to
the current casing, and without aftercut (8, 11, and 15mg) for further
laboratory evaluations of new aftercut systems.

All of the filter modification models have been made and are in
analytical for physical testing. Subjective evaluation of the models has
been initiated. Evaluations continued with alkaline treatment of filler and
filters in an effort to increase overall response of ART cigarette smoke.

The large-scale portion of the nicotine add-back study is complete.
The nicotine add-back for small-scale has been rescheduled for early
September.

Subjective screening has been completed of 24% RL’s (Marlboro
configuration) from Park 500 with 2% and 4% Bermuda stem. The 4% level
again was clearly different. Evaluation of combinations of these RL’s with
test RCB’s (11% and 16% Bermuda stem) at normal levels in Marlboro are in
progress to select models for POL tests. Pilot ES tests are in progress on
both MPC and citric acid post-ART stem based on encouraging subjective
results with NHOH and Ca(OH), treatments. Analytical and subjective tests
are in progress to establish specifications for Louisville ZS production
trials.

AMBROSTA:

Subjective and analytical data indicate that Aromatek 215 (Vanillin
Glucoside Acetal) and Aromatek 240 (Ethylvanillin Glucoside Acetal) are
unstable in both methods of application, i.e., via side-seam adhesives or

ZOLESITSZ02