June 15, 1978

 

Mr. J. H. Sherrill, Jr.
RE: IMPROVED WINSTON KING RSM TESTING

Three RSM type tests have been conducted on Full Flavor Non-Menthol
products to date:

Original RSM Test (1976) - A feasibility test incorporating six
key product variables and 27 test products to test the RSM
methodology for application to our product testing (5 additional
products were used to validate the results).

1.

FF Non-Menthol Screening Test (1977) - A test incorporating 16
product variables and 20 test products to determine the relative
importance of the product variables in terms of their effects

on consumer product acceptability.

Improved WINSTON King RSM Test (1978) - A 45 blend RSM test incor-
porating seven key product variables and ranges determined from
the previous screening and RSM work designed to test against
Marketing action standards for an improved product.

All of the test products were tested on a paired basis through NFO
among WINSTON, Marlboro, and Other NIF smokers. WINSTON King was used
as the control product throughout in the 1976 and 1977 studies. In
the current 1978 study, WINSTON King was the control product among
WINSTON smokers and Marlboro was the control among Marlboro and Other
NFF smokers.

The results of these studies have been used to develop RSM models
which include the effects of the seven key product variables on
consumer product acceptability, tar level, nicotine level, and other
laboratory measured variables. Approximately 85% of the variation
in consumer preference is explained by the RSM model, indicating a
good "fit" to the data.

\

In addition to having actual results of 97 product variations tested
over a wide range, the RSM model can be used to "simulate" any number

of products over the entire range of the variables studied fin order

to determine areas of product types which would meet the Marketing
action standards. Over a half million products were simulated using

the RSM model. The results indicate that less than 1% of these products
would meet the action standards and, of those, about 90% fall into four
narrow ranges of the variables tested. Table I, attached, lists the
entire range of each variable tested along with the four areas of
"potential" products which would meet action standards.

 

Reon SLLOS