25 Shattuck Street
Boston, Massachusetts 02115
(617) 432-1830

(617) 432-1144 (Fax)

Harvard Medical School
DEPARTMENT OF CELL BIOLOGY

    

Dr. Arthur Eisenberg

Council for Tobacco Research
900 Third Avenue

New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. Eisenberg,

Tam writing to seek an invitation to apply for research funding from your agency. Recently, I have been
appointed as an assistant professor in the departments of Pathology and Microbiology & Immunology at the
Stanford University School of Medicine. There, I will begin my independent research career continuing my
biochemical studies on how the cell cycle controls DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. This follows on
work I began in Marc Kirschner's lab originally at the University of California, San Francisco, and now at
Harvard Medical School.

Although my current work is focused on the biochemistry of the cell cycle and replication, my enclosed
curriculum vitae should attest to my long-standing interest in human cancer. My graduate work with David
Baltimore at MIT focused on the role of abl oncogene in transformation and leukemia. I see my current
work on the normal physiology of the cell cycle as an important prelude to asking how the cell cycle is
altered in transformed cells and to identifying targets for chemotherapy.

T enclose a general plan of the specific research project, which fits into a somewhat broader set of projects
on DNA replication that I will study in my lab. The project that I would ask the Council to fund is to study
proteins that are stoichiometric inhibitors of cyclin-dependent kinases and the mechanisms by which these
proteins inhibit specific steps in DNA replication. We have already published one report in Nature
showing that one such inhibitor, called p21CIP!, has two domains that independently target two factors
important for replication: the cyclin E/Cdk2 kinase and the replication protein PCNA. More generally, I
have established the importance of cyclin E for the initiation of DNA replication, published in The Journal
of Cell Biology. We are currently following this work by looking at more recently identified inhibitors, for
example, the proteins p27KIP! and Roughex, and asking how these proteins inhibit cyclin-dependent
kinases and DNA replication. Our data on p27 suggests that there is a novel target important for DNA
replication. The funding of our project would allow us to complete and publish the work demonstrating the
existence of the novel target and to test whether a candidate protein identified by a two-hybrid screen is
indeed this target. Depending on the project length, we may also be able to ask about other novel targets for
the growing family of these inhibitors. Additionally, by identifying the minimal domains of these proteins
required for inhibition, we may be able to find peptides inhibitors which could serve as beginning models
for drug design, with obvious implications for chemotherapy.

enclose my curriculum vitae and a general plan for the research project, and copies of three papers relevant
to this work. I will be in full time residence at Stanford beginning December 1, 1995. Until that time, I
will be corresponding from Harvard Medical School. I thank you for your consideration and look forward
to hearing from the Council.

Sincerely,

ae

Peter K. J, On, Ph.D.
enc.

 

40007050