-OF
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592

TO: Field Sales Personnel in Florida DATE: March 1, 1999
FROM: Theresa LaSalle/Sales Promotions - OPB

 

SUBJECT: Parliame

The five topics covered in this document are designed to assist you in planning, executing, and
administering the Parliament Full Flavor Kings Box and Parliament Menthol Lights Kings Box
introduction. They are:

¢ Product Ordering (Wholesale)
¢ Introductory Allowance

© Rapid Distribution Allowance
© Consignment Funds

© Gratis Payments

Pri rderin: holesale):

Richmond Customer Service will begin to accept orders on May 24, 1999 for product shipments
beginning June 7, 1999. Orders may be accepted from Philip Morris personnel or wholesale
accounts. Philip Morris personne! who place account orders need to provide the Richmond Customer
Service representative with the account’s Personal Identification Number. Philip Morris personnel may
place orders by calling Richmond Customer Service at 1-888-WE BUY PM. If you have any questions
concerning this process, please contact Richmond Customer Service at 1-888-WE BUY PM.

Introductory Allowance (see Attachment A for details):

The Introductory Allowance is $6.00 per 12M case for Parliament Full Flavor Kings Box
(Regular & Menthol) and Parliament Menthol Lights Kings Box paid via a credit memo
each week to wholesale accounts. The credit is based on shipments of Parliament Full Flavor Kings Box
and Parliament Menthol Lights Kings Box product to wholesale during the introductory period of
June 7 to July 23, 1999. Wholesale accounts will be paid this allowance on all deliveries up to
their introductory allocation quantity. Introductory allocations can be found on the SI Support-File
Server-120/11 in a folder entitled Intro Alloc Parliament Full Flavor Box.

To help you track the introductory allocation credits on a weekly basis, a report will be placed on the SI
Support-File Server-120/11 in a folder entitled Parl Full & MN LTS Box Intro credits during the
introductory period. The report will include the following information.

« Account Name and Customer Number

© Total Introductory Allocation

« Product Purchased (cumulative by week)

* Total Introductory Allowance Paid To Date

¢ Total Remaining Introductory Allocation

|

6e09ser.og