A Rapid Distribution Allowance (RDA) of $16.00 per 12M case will be paid to wholesalers for all
Parliament Full Flavor Kings Box and Parliament Lights Kings Box product invoiced by
wholesalers for shipments to retailers from June 7 to July 23, 1999. This allowance is designed to
expedite product distribution at retail. The RDA payments should be made through PSI as follows:

PROMOTION CODE
Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box 937A

r ils):
All TSMs, except TSMs in Metro territories, should use existing consignment funds that were issued
for the Marlboro Ultra Lights Menthol and Basic Menthol Ultra Lights 100s Box introductions. If you
do not currently have a consignment fund, please follow the procedures on Attachment C to obtain one.
Amounts greater than $1,000 are available with SSD approval. Requests for additional funds should be
specified (e.g., number of accounts, sub-jobber/cash & carry issues, etc.) on the Consignment Request
Form (Attachment C-1) and District Managers should forward the form to Tomasz Dunski, Field

Payments Coordinator, via e-mail by April 9, 1999,

m ils):
Please use the Retail Gratis Agreement form to determine each account’s gratis payment level. Maximum
Parliament gratis is 12 cartons/120 packs (3 cartons/30 packs for each packing). The retailer must agree
to and maintain the performance criteria agreed to on the Gratis Agreement form for the entire
introductory period.

Gratis payments should be paid upon the second visit to the store, after verifying performance, using one
of two methods:

1. SFA/EFSI (preferred method)
2. Van Stock

In SFA/FSE, you may reimburse retailers at the retailer’s wholesale price using the following promotion
code:

Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box 960A
Only one invoice will be allowed in SFA/FSI. If van stock is used to pay gratis, use expense category
“Parliament Full Flavor and Lights Kings Box” to reimburse your consignment at the retailer’s
wholesale price.

These guidelines should enable you to:

© Meet distribution and sales objectives
e Accurately complete administrative responsibilities; and

 Reimburse wholesalers and retailers in a timely manner

If you have any questions, please contact your immediate supervisor.

GrO9SerZ0z