as “ a docket

Grant Application # 1124, Peter V. Tishler, M.D., Peter Bent Brigham Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts.

"Aryl Hydrocarbon Hydroxylase and Occupationa! Exposure to Asbestos"

This tnvestiaator intends tn measure Tymohobsast AHH Inductbility tn
subjects with known heavy exposure to asbestos for many years. Thelr findings
will be compared with an age-matched u.exposed control population. The
exposed group will tnelude 145 smokers and 55 non-smokers, a number which they
belleve will be sufficient to provide prospective assessments of the relationships
between AHH Enducibility and the development of disease known to be related to
asbestos (lung cancer, and mesotheliomata).

Spectrofluoromet ric methods will be usd for the determination of AHH In
cultured lymphoblasts. Studies will be rer-:ated on a sub-sample of the total
population. Finally, Dr. Selikoff, a physician with extensive experience with
the asbestos problem, will be a participant in the study through the provision of
follov-up, presumably over a long perlod of time, on the subjects so that any
correlation between asbestos associated lung disease and AHK fnducibl lity
might be determined.

Investigations will be conducted at the Channing Laboratory of the Harvard
Medical School which Is located at the Boston City Hospital. The laboratory
facilities appear to be adequate. . .

Samples will be collected by Dr. Self koff and his associates and there
is a letter Indicating the collabcration acreement with Dr. Selltkoff.

There is only one technical point that | would like to ralse and this
pertains to the budget justification. Specifically, the specimens will be
obtained tn New York City by Dr. Seltikoff during the course of reqular
examinations on the subject populathn. The tnmvestiaator ralses a problem
about safe arrival of samples in Boston and 1! assume by this that he Ts concerned
about the shipping and viability of these lyrmhocytes. | do not foresee
that this should be a serfous problem since we have shipped samples success fully
on numerous occastons. { would think that this minor problem could be
resolved with the saving of stonificant funds which miaht otherwise be
expended through Boston to New York and return trips by personnel.

This project appears to be well thought out, and the investiaator
definitely appears to have insight Into pertinent aspects of the Issue.
Finally, It would be of value to learn about the imnortant problem off prery os,
AHH, cigarette smoking, and asbestos related diseases.

sen tie?