. ' T.H.M,
. 7/27/82

LONGEVITY/FLEXIBILITY

FCB has demonstrated that "locker room" has good creative stretch,
locker situations are not limitless but there exists now an
executional variety that more than meets the requirements of 2-3
years. Most important is the equity in this image that is realized
over time, the hard corporate issues of cost per thousand cigarettes
advertised can become increasingly more return oriented as the

image builds.

Also resolved, are virtually all flexibility issues -- brand em-
phasis can clearly be adjusted both between single and multiple
packings and by media form.

In summary, we feel the "locker room" campaign best positions Kent
as the contemporary choice for those seeking the spirit of confi-

dence and independence, it communicates a solid product promise, it
effectively represents both Kent and Kent III, and it's memorable.

To the obvious question in a competition, there must be a second
place -- the decision we reached should not place the DFS
"conversion" campaign in anything ather than a very positive light.

As essentially a product promise driven campaign, "conversion"
represents one of the strongest most intrusive bids for consumer
action and trial in cigarette advertising.

The most significant aspects of the campaign are its "fast start"
potential to hype trial and generate conversion, it's adaptability
to address changing market factors, and a "reason why", powerfully
set up and delivered by the rejection/acceptancé premise.

In our position, several key questions regarding "conversion" still
needed to be answered. We would note these issues are researchable,
however, "locker room" is ready to go. |

In documenting what we believe to be the inherent questions in
"conversion", included would be:

1. The campaign communicates quickly in "spreads", however
looses some of its effectiveness when translating to
pages and out-of-home.

2. Although DFS presented extensive pool-outs for this
campaign, there is still an unanswered question of

longevity.

S26L0THO