. . . T.H.M.
oa, 7/27/82

BACKGROUND

It has become apparent over the past twelve months that a Kent
"family" marketing approach would provide greater opportunities

and impact for the brand. In addition to Kent and Kent III sharing
a common heritage, positioning and core strength -- the most impor-
tant advantages for the brand are: Kent is nationally supported for
the first time since 1977, a broader and more dominant geographic
coverage, increased sales force support, and a greater return-on-
investment long term.

DIRECTION/ STRATEGY

In reviewing Kent and Kent III's current status (sales, product
attributes, demographics and psychographics), clearly the best
strategic option for the "family" approach is an offensive one --
replenish the current user base via trial/conversion.

This offensive option netted us with two basic campaign directions;
image driven and product promise driven. Conceivably, the Kent
family campaign would have both, a long term image builder and a
strong cutting edge that will get a "fast start" on stabilizing
the franchise.

RECOMMENDATION

The strong consensus of the brand group is that we select FCB's
"locker room" campaign. This campaign convincingly addresses
Kent's offensive option. It hits the new user target hard, estab-
lishes a contemporary brand positioning, and incorporates a solid
product promise that clearly differentiates Kent and Kent III.

RATIONALE

l. Distinct Personality/Property

FCB has created a unique standout image. - Beyond confident and
powerful, which it is, "locker room" represents a contemporar
believable image for KENT. An image that is relevant to the
vulnerable smoker of Marlboro or Winston, and is also one

that women can relate to. At 30+ years of age the Kent target
smoker is developing new attitudes and values, and is ready to
switch to lower tar brands. This image is attractive to that
switcher and what it says about him. Importantly, as a con-
fident, mature and independent image, it is also a positioning
our current franchise can relate to positively.

| €S6LOTLO