SMOKING RESTRICTIONS:
THE HIODEN THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH

By Gray Robertson
President, ACVA Atlantic, Inc.

Ban smoking.

It's the instant solution to indoor air pollution. Right? No more
sore and watery eyes, headaches, mysterious bouts of allergies and asthma,
scratchy throats, coughing or other respiratory problems. And best of all,
no more worries about chronic health problems from the air you breathe.
Right? . .

Wrong. H.L. Mencken might have been anticipating today's debate about

smoking on the job and in public places when he wrote: “For every problem
there is a solution that is simple, neat -- and wrong." The truth is that
reducing or eliminating smoking in the workplace is no solution to the
problem of indoor air pollution,

When it comes to poor indoor air quality, tobacco smoke appears to be
among the least of our worries. New reports by federal and private experts
show that environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) may be the primary cause of
indoor air pollution in as few as 2 percent of all cases,. And that means
Kansas City lawmakers will accomplish little or nothing even if they
succeed in removing every last wisp of tobacco smoke in the workplace.
Complaints of health problems and irritations will persist. We now know
that the vast majority of these reports are unrelated to cigarette smoke.

How much of the blame now heaped on ETS is misplaced? The government's
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) reports that
of the 203 major indoor air quality complaints, it examined recently, just
four cases -~-- or 2 percent -- were attributable to cigarette smoking. My
own independent firm, ACVA Atlantic, Inc., has inspected more than 27
million square feet of office space in 125 major private and public
buildings, including the U.S. Supreme Court and the main Federal Reserve
Bank. Tobacco smoke was identified as the major contributing factor to air
quality problems in only five of those buildings.

These consistent findings make it increasingly clear that tobacco smoke
is blamed for-poor indoor air quality simply because it is one of the few
indoor air factors that we can see and smell. But high levels of ETS are
nothing more than a symptom of poorly maintained and designed ventilation
systems. While NIOSH identified ETS as the problem in a tiny handful of
instances, inadequate ventilation was btamed in 50 percent of them. ACVA
investigations show improper attention to indoor air circulation was
responsible in the majority of cases for the spread and breeding of
infectious germs and allergenic dusts and spores ~-- not to mention
fiberglass particles, asbestos, chemical fumes and a host of other
hazardous airborne particles undetectable to the eye and nose.

€Cé98 sEncs