True, cigarette smoke .waS suspected as. the guilty party by many of
those who called in NIOSH and ACVA, But that*seéms" to have been because
workplace managers were totally unaware that scores -of non-tobacco
pollutants can inflict symptoms similar to -- and much worse than -- those
sometimes associated with ETS. For example, a NIOSH microbiologist
reported that one federal building in Washington, D.C., was “sort of like a
chicken coop" teeming with 83,700 fungi per cubic meter. No rule
restricting or even banning cigarette smoke would have done a thing to end
the health problems in that case.

Under normal conditions with proper ventilation, tobacco smoke very
quickly dissipates without a trace. In fact, this “disappearing act"
confirms that the ventilation system in an indoor area is working properly.
In those few cases where ETS persists, the ventilation must be suspect
immediately. Problems with cigarette smoke should be viewed as a "tip off"
to the much more serious underlying problem of inadequate or improper
ventilation. The good news is that once the underlying problem of poor air
circulation is corrected, so too is the high level of ETS,

Medicine teaches us that effective treatment of a symptom requires
going after the disease. It just doesn't work the other way around. The
disease will not go away simply because a symptom has been masked. For
this reason, business operators and lawmakers can no longer ignore the
obvious: Smoking bans and restrictions will do nothing to correct
inadequately and improperly ventilated indoor air spaces which are "traps"
for massive accumulations of airborne non-tobacco pollutants, which have
. been found to inflict everything from death to troublesome irritations,
including sore ayes, coughing and dermatitis outbreaks. We cannot afford
to be lulled into a false sense of complacency, naively assuming that we
have licked the indoor air pollution problem by the "quick fix" of pinning
the blame on tobacco smoke,

And so it is that the misguided attack on tobacco smoke may actually
eliminate one tell-tale marker we now have that a ventilation system is
inadequate, In this sense, a fitting epitaph on the tomb of a future
Legionnaires' disease victim in Kansas City might be: “He worked in a smoke
free environment,"

$oes séncs

¥