trusts, and estates are cautioned to consult their tax advisors before investing in a Unit. In addition, this
summary is limited to investors who will hold the Units, the shares of Common Stock, the Warrants, and
any shares of Common Stock obtained upon exercise or automatic conversion of Warrants as “capital
assets” (generally, property held for investment rather than primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
course of a trade or business) for federal income tax purposes.

To determine tax basis for federal income tax purposes, the purchase price of a Unit will be allocated
~ between the shares of Common Stock and the Warrants comprising the Unit in the proportion that the
fair market value of each bears to the sum of their fair market values.

No gain or loss will be recognized by a holder ofa Warrant upon the acquisition of shares of Common
Stock of the Company by exercising the Warrant. However, short-term capital gain or loss, in some cases
ordinary income, will be recognized to the extent that a holder receives cash in lieu of fractional shares.
The holder’s tax basis for shares of Common Stock of the Company received upon exercise of a Warrant
will equal the sum of the holder’s tax basis in the Warrant plus the exercise price. The holding period for
such shares of Common Stock will commence when the Warrant is exercised for purposes of determining
whether a subsequent sale or exchange of the shares of Common Stock gives rise to long- or short-term
gain or loss.

The sale of a Warrant will result in recognition of capital gain or loss to the holder measured by the
difference between the amount realized and the holder's tax basis in the Warrant. Such gain or loss will
be long-term if the Warrant has been held for more than one year (or the long-term holding period in effect
at the time of sale, if other than one year).

Counsel to the Company is not aware of any regulations, cases, or published rulings which deal with
the federal income tax consequences of the mandatory conversion of unexercised Warrants into stock.
Therefore, the treatment of the holder at that time is uncertain. If the conversion were treated as a
nontaxable purchase or transformation of a hybrid security, the holder’s basis in the stock would be equal
to his basis in the Warrants. If the Warrant were characterized as an instrument which contained a fixed
Tight to receive stock upon the mandatory conversion and an option to acquire stock, the holder would
be required to allocate his basis in the Warrant between the fixed right and the option feature. In that event,
the holder’s basis in the stock received upon expiration of the exercise period would be equal to the portion
of his basis in the converted Warrants allocated to the option feature. Such a loss would be long-term if
the Warrant had been held for more than one year: If the conversion were treated as a taxable exchange,
the holder would recognize capital gain or loss measured by the difference between the fair market value
of the stock received and the holder’s basis in the Warrants. Such gain or loss would be long-term if the
Warrants had been held for more than one year.

Adjustments of the exercise price (and possibly adjustments to the number of shares of Common Stock
of the Company purchasable upon the exercise of Warrants) could, upon the occurrence of certain
distributions to holders of shares of Common Stock of the Company (which distributions are not currently
contemplated by the Company), result in constructive distributions to the holders of the Warrants which
could be taxable as dividends under Section 305 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended.

31

ow

1
©
am
beads
@
OQ

J
OQ

 

650548070
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I