DESCRIPTION OF CAPITAL STOCK

The Company is authorized to issue 30,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value, and
500,000 shares of preferred stock, $100 par value. No preferred stock is outstanding and no series of
preferred stock has been fixed. All outstanding shares of Common Stock are, and the shares offered hereby
upon issuance and sale will be, duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

— Holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters submitted to a vote of
-Shareholders, and the vote of the holders of a majority of the shares represented at a meeting at which a
quorum is present will be the act of the shareholders’ meeting unless the vote of a greater number is required
by law or the Company’s articles of incorporation. Cumulative voting in the election of directors is not
permitted, and the holders of a majority of the Company’s voting securities can therefore elect all members
of the Board of Directors. See “Principal Shareholders.” Holders of Common Stock have no preemptive
rights to purchase or subscribe for securities of the Company, and the Common Stock is not convertible
into any other securities or subject to redemption. Subject to the rights of holders of the Company's
outstanding preferred stock, if any, the holders of Common Stock are entitled to receive such dividends
as may be declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor and, upon dissolution
or liquidation, to share ratably in any assets of the Company remaining after satisfaction of its liabilities.

The articles of incorporation of the Company provide that its Board of Directors may issue up to
500,000 shares of the preferred stock from time to time, in one or more series, in such amounts as the Board
of Directors may determine without further action of the Company’s shareholders. In determining to issue
such shares of preferred stock, the Board of Directors is empowered to fix, among other things, the voting
power, designations, preferences, rights and restrictions of such preferred stock. In the event of any future
issuance thereof, the specific attributes of such shares of preferred stock will be those which, in the judgment
of the Board of Directors, are appropriate to the conditions and circumstances under which the shares are
issued. The Company has no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock.

Frost National Bank is the transfer agent and registrar for the Common Stock.

UNDERWRITING

Subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Underwriting Agreement, the Company has
agreed to sell, and the Underwriters named below, for whom Schneider, Bernet & Hickman, Inc. is acting
as Representative, have severally agreed to purchase the number of Units set forth opposite their respective

names: | .
Underwriter Number of Units
Schneider, Bernet & Hickman, INC. .........c.cscscscsoscessecccssscessscssccesesecoececsccececceceeee

Total ......ccccossecsesssscsssessecansensesssneseseessesesssesnssssasssarsssentssssusnsscecevercenseacsseceorssans 1,650,000

The Company is obligated to sell and the Underwriters must purchase all of the Units offered hereby
if any are purchased.

32

o
O1
©
1
ie
@
S
pub

 

 

650548071
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I