filtered cigarettes are designed to reduce the tar content of cigarette smoke in a manner which also reduces
nicotine delivery. Consequently, the Surgeon General has indicated that smokers of low tar and filtered
cigarette may smoke more low tar or filtered cigarettes per day in order to maintain their accustomed daily
intake of nicotine than do many smokers of other conventional cigarettes. Non-tobacco industry responses
to the problems of cigarette smokers have included attempts to simulate cigarette smoking through the use
of substances not including nicotine or the removal of nicotine from cigarette smoke by filtration. Unlike
the foregoing alternatives, the Company's product is intended to offer cigarette smokers the alternative of
continuing their nicotine inhalation, free of other products of tobacco combustion suspected to be harmful.

The Company is not aware of any currently available product which provides the conventional
Cigarette smoker with a means of enjoying the inhalation of nicotine in circumstances in which conventional
cigarette smoking is illegal or socially unacceptable. Consequently, the Company believes that its Smokeless
Cigarette is a unique alternative for conventional cigarette smokers who desire nicotine inhalation pleasure
with reduced health concerns and without negative social consequences or legal restrictions. The Company
intends to market the Smokeless Cigarette as a pleasurable nicotine product and not as a product intended
to deter or reduce smoking or to have therapeutic benefits.

The Smokeless Cigarettes

The Smokeless Cigarette consists essentially ofan active surface containing a nicotine solution blended
with carriers, flavorants and pH buffers inserted within a small tube having the shape, weight and size of
a conventional cigarette. When the user draws air through the Smokeless Cigarette a small amount of
nicotine vapor is emitted into the air inhaled by the user. Each normal “puff” on a Smokeless Cigarette
delivers approximately 50 micrograms of vaporized nicotine, the approximate amount of nicotine delivered
by a normal puff on a conventional cigarette.

In order to appeal to the perceived preferences of the conventional cigarette smoker, the Company
has designed its Smokeless Cigarette in order to have substantially the same appearance, weight and feel,
and to provide a similar sensation, as a conventional cigarette. The Smokeless Cigarette includes cigarette
filter rod segments overwrapped with a paper laminate and commonly used cork-like upping paper, and
can be manufactured in standard cigarette lengths. The nicotine solution used in the Smokeless Cigarette
is blended with flavorants for the purpose of approximating the flavors of leading brands of “regular.”
“menthol” and “light” conventional cigarettes. These flavorants are available to the Company from
suppliers of flavorants to the conventional cigarette industry.

The Company intends to offer the Smokeless Cigarettes in packs of six at a retail price approximately
the same as a pack of twenty conventional cigarettes. Each pack of six Smokeless Cigarettes will have a
nicotine delivery capacity intended to satisfy the average smoker of conventional cigarettes for an entire
day. Because the nicotine delivery capacity of a Smokeless Cigarette is determined primarily by the amount
of nicotine it contains, a single Smokeless Cigarette can be manufactured with the nicotine delivery capacity
of several cigars or conventional cigarettes. However, because the Smokeless Cigarette is more efficient as
a means of nicotine delivery than are cigars and conventional cigarettes, a Smokeless Cigarette can be
manufactured to deliver an amount of nicotine equivalent to several conventional cigarettes or cigars while
containing only an amount of nicotine comparable to that contained in a single cigarette of some brands
of conventional cigarettes and less than is contained in most cigars.

Nicotine is an alkaloid with two properties not found among commonly used alkaloids, such as, for
example, caffeine, quinine, and codeine, which enable the Smokeless Cigarette to deliver nicotine to its user
in substantially the same form and approximate quantity per inhalation as a conventional cigarette without
the necessity for tobacco combustion. First, the quantity of nicotine required to produce the effect on the
nervous system to which most cigarette smokers are accustomed is small relative to the amounts of other
alkaloids regularly consumed by typical users. This characteristic is important because nicotine is a toxic

16

on
a
o
O
bo
®
2
U1
a

 

650548055
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I