requirements upon conventional cigarettes, and the federal cigarette excise 1ax statutes, apply only to
“cigarettes,” which are defined asa “roll of tobacco” wrapped in certain substances. Because the Smokeless
Cigarette does not contain a “roll of tobacco”, but rather nicotine and other purified substances derived
from tobacco, and because neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the federal
Cigarette excise tax statutes have been applied to smokeless tobacco products such as chewing tobacco or
snuff, the Company believes the Smokeless Cigarette is not subject to such act or tax. Nevertheless, the

—Company has not requested a ruling or other determination regarding the applicability of such act or tax
and is not aware of any controlling precedent, and it is possible that it could be successfully argued that
the Smokeless Cigarette is sufficiently similar to conventional cigarettes to justify the application of such
act or tax to the product.

The Company believes that the use of television advertising would provide the Company with the
most effective means of introducing the Smokeless Cigarette to the retail market and a substantial
competitive advantage over its conventional cigarette competitors. The application of the federal ban on
television advertising to the Smokeless Cigarette would increase the risk that the Smokeless Cigarette will
not be successfully introduced, and, if successfully introduced, will not successfully compete with
conventional cigarettes and other competing products on a sustained basis. Since the federal ban on cigarette
advertising commenced in 1971, the Company believes that very few new brands of conventional cigarettes
have been successfully introduced, and only at a cost significantly in excess of the Company’s expected
financial resources.

Although the application of the federal cigarette excise tax to the Smokeless Cigarette may result in
less net revenue to the Company per sales unit, the Company does not believe the amount of net revenue
reduction would by itself cause its operations to be unprofitable. See “Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Certain Factors Bearing on Results of Future

Operations.”

State Regulation. State statutes taxing cigarettes and cigars and restricting their use are also believed
by the Company generally to be inapplicable because definitions of the taxed and restricted product
generally refer to “a roll of tobacco for smoking” without specifying nicotine alone as the relevant substance.
The Company believes that the Smokeless Cigarette will be taxed and otherwise regulated under state laws
as a smokeless tobacco product, such as snuff and chewing tobacco. However, a determination that federal
Jaws and regulations concerning conventional cigarettes are applicable to the Smokeless Cigarette would
likely result in interpretations of many state conventional cigarette laws such that they would be applicable
to Smokeless Cigarettes. See “Business — Governmental Regulation and Taxation.”

5. Control by Officers, Directors and Current Shareholders

After completion of this offering and assuming the exercise of the Warrants, the officers, directors
and existing shareholders of the Company, and the owners of the Smokeless Cigarette patent and related
rights, will own approximately 70% of the shares of Common Stock of the Company then outstanding,
Accordingly, since the Common Stock of the Company has no cumulative voting rights, such officers,
directors, shareholders and owners will be in a position to elect all of the directors of the Company and
to control its business policies. See “Principal Shareholders.”

6. Dilution
j This offering involves immediate substantial dilution of the book value of the Common Stock of the
Company from the offering price per Unit. See “Dilution.”
7. Possible Rule 144 Sales

All holders of the Company’s securities have agreed with the Underwriters to refrain from selling any
shares of Common Stock in the public trading market except pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144 under

”
GT
—]
G1
boa
@
©
~—
J

 

650548047
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I