Nevertheless, none of the Company’s patent rights have been litigated or subjected to judicial scrutiny
and the Company believes that many courts have been unsympathetic to the holders of patents relating
to relatively simple inventions such as the Smokeless Cigarette. It is possible that if a manufacturer of a

, ;
commencement of initial retail sales. The Company believes, however, that the proceeds of this offering.
together with its cash on hand, will be sufficient to meet its cash needs for at least twelve months following
this offering. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”

3. Untested Patents
~ The Company currently holds one United States patent, and holds seven foreign patents and currently
~ pending patent applications in eight other foreign countries paralleling its United States patent relating to
similar product could demonstrate a significant difference between its product and the Smokeless Cigarette,
the Company would be unable to prevent the sale of such product. Therefore, if the Company’s patent rights
>
f
&.
=,
#
¥
f

the basic technology underlying the Smokeless Cigarette. In addition, the Company has applied for patents
covering certain improvements to the Smokeless Cigarette and inventions concerning certain other nicotine
related products. The Company has been advised by its patent counsel that the product which it intends
to market, as well as the process which it intends to use in manufacturing its product, do not infringe any
known U.S. patent rights of other parties.

are tested in litigation, there can be no assurance that patent rights affording substantial competitive
protection to the Company will be upheld or that such rights would prevent the marketing of competing
products similar in concept and design to the Smokeless Cigarette. Furthermore, there is no assurance that
the Company would be able to absorb the expenses of patent litigation against any infringers if necessary
to enforce the Company's rights. Nevertheless, the Company intends, to the extent of its financial resources,

vigorously to defend its patent rights with respect to competing products it believes infringe upon such rights.
See “Business — Patents and Trademarks.”

4. Governmental Regulation and Taxation

General. The Company believes that its Smokeless Cigarette currently is not subject to significant state
or federal governmental regulation or taxation. The Company’s belief, however, is based upon its
interpretation of several significant statutes and regulations, discussed briefly below, which do not
specifically include or exclude the Smokeless Cigarette as a regulated or specially taxed product. The
Company has not sought any ruling or determination under any such statutes or regulations, however, and,
to the Company’s knowledge, no court or governmental agency has ruled on the applicability of any such
statutes or regulations to the Smokeless Cigarette. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Company's
manufacturing and marketing of its product will not be materially delayed or otherwise materially burdened
by governmental regulation or taxation. Such delays or other burdens could result from the amendment
of current laws and regulations or the enactment of new regulatory or taxation schemes as well as
interpretations of current statutes and regulations in the specific context of the Smokeless Cigarette.

FDA Regulation. The Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) has refused to assert jurisdiction over
conventional cigarettes by maintaining the position that the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act generally
does not apply to cigarettes containing nicotine or nicotine separately. The FDA’s position was affirmed
in 1980 by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit m Action on Smoking
and Health v. Harris. Because of the foregoing, the Company does not believe the Smokeless Cigarette will
be subject to FDA regulation. However, should FDA regulation be imposed, introduction of the Smokeless
Cigarette into the United States market could be delayed for an indefinite period pending FDA testing, and
FDA approval of the Smokeless Cigarette could be conditioned upon restrictions materially adverse to the
Company’s marketing efforts.

Prohibition of Television Advertising; Federal Excise Tax. The Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act which, among other things, prohibits television advertising of and imposes labeling

7

a
Sy
2
a
oo
®
2
bem
oO

 

650548046
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE