650548056

 

PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

substance and, if consumed in a manner different than inhalation of the amount delivered by conventional
cigarettes or through the Smokeless Cigarette, can be highly dangerous. Second, nicotine when extracted
from tobacco and properly distilled is a colorless, transparent liquid which vaporizes easily.

Market and Marketing

The Company believes that most users of the Smokeless Cigarette will be current smokers of
conventional cigarettes who wish to reduce their health concerns or to enjoy nicotine in environments where

~ smoking is forbidden or when others may be offended by conventional cigarette smoke and odor. According

to an independent study, in 1982 approximately 56 million Americans smoked 633 billion conventional
cigarettes purchased at retail for $23.4 billion, and in 1981 more than 4 trillion conventional cigarettes were
manufactured world wide.

The Company intends to market its product initially in selected major Texas cities beginning no earlier
than the last quarter of 1984 and to expand its market throughout the United States and selected foreign
countries thereafter on a region by region basis based on and subject to the results of initial marketing and
the Company’s manufacturing and marketing capacity.

The Company anticipates two significant marketing advantages not enjoyed by its conventional
cigarette competitors. First, the Company anticipates the availability of television advertising of its
Smokeless Cigarettes which the Company believes is the most cost-effective means of mass consumer
advertising. Second, the Company believes that the introduction of its Smokeless Cigarette will require less
promotion and advertising than is the case with the introduction of new conventional cigarette brands or
smokeless tobacco products because the Smokeless Cigarette is a novel form of nicotine delivery and
therefore more likely to benefit from consumer curiosity and word-of-mouth publicity. The Company’s
Strategy of region by region introduction of the Smokeless Cigarette is intended to help control its advertising
and promotional cost by allowing the Company to concentrate its initial advertising in a single region in
order to initiate its anticipated word-of-mouth advantage. However, there can be no assurance that the
Company’s anticipation of the availability of television advertising and of consumer curiosity regarding the
Smokeless Cigarette will be accurate or that any such initial curiosity will result in positive word-of-mouth
publicity. The amount of advertising and promotional activity to be financed by the net proceeds of this
offering is far less than that normally necessary for a successful nationwide introduction of a new
conventional cigarette brand or smokeless tobacco product. See “Risk Factors — Governmental Regulation
and Taxation,” ““Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Selling. Distribution and Marketing Costs”
and “Business — Governmental Regulation and Taxation — The Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act.”

The Company plans to introduce its Smokeless Cigarette through a regional multi-media advertising
program emphasizing television advertising, but also including magazine, newspaper and outdoor billboard
advertising. This program has been developed by the Company with the assistance of its advertising agency,
The Richards Group, Inc. of Dallas. The Company’s strategy will be to distribute its Smokeless Cigarettes
through the same retail outlets through which conventional cigarettes are sold. The Company anticipates
selling directly to supermarkets through food brokers and to drug stores and tobacco wholesalers through
manufacturers representatives. It is expected that tobacco wholesalers will re-distnbute the Smokeless
Cigarettes to restaurants, newsstands and other retailers of tobacco products. No commitments or other
arrangements have been made with any such distributors, but the Company does not anticipate any
significant delays or difficulties in establishing satisfactory distribution relationships.

The Company intends to market its Smokeless Cigarette under the trademark “FAVOR” which the
Company believes signifies the benefits of the Smokeless Cigarette to its user and to others who would
otherwise be subjected to tobacco smoke had the user not chosen a Smokeless Cigarette. See “Business —
Patents and Trademarks.”

17

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

on
|
©
o1
bea
@.
2
a
n