of whether nicotine or the Smokeless Cigarette is a “tobacco product” under the Substances Act. The
Company believes that because the nicotine used in the Smokeless Cigarette is derived entirely from
tobacco, the Smokeless Cigarette is a “tobacco product” not regulated under the Substances Act.

State Regulation and Taxation

State regulation of tobacco products generally consists of taxing laws and regulations and the
Tegulation of the use of tobacco products, Primarily cigars and cigarettes, Although most states tax all
tobacco products, cigarettes and cigars are generally taxed at the highest rate. State statutes taxing cigarettes
and cigars are believed by the Company to be generally inapplicable to Smokeless Cigarettes because
definitions of the taxed product generally include “a roll of tobacco for smoking,” without specifying
nicotine alone as the relevant substance. However, to the Company’s knowledge no state or municipal
taxing authority has interpreted any such law or regulation in the specific context of the Smokeless Cigarette.
The Company believes that the Smokeless Cigarette will be generally subject to state and municipal taxation
as a smokeless tobacco product such as chewing tobacco and snuff.

The use of tobacco smoking products is primarily regulated by state statutes and municipal ordinances
prohibiting public smoking. The prohibitions in these state statutes and municipal ordinances generally
proscribe “smoking tobacco” in certain public places. The Company believes that the state and municipal
prohibitions are generally inapplicable to the use of its Smokeless Cigarettes because such use does not
involve “‘smoking.” However, to the Company’s knowledge no prohibition on public smoking has been
interpreted in the specific context of the Smokeless Cigarettes.

Many states have enacted hazardous substance laws similar to the federal Substances Act. To the
Company’s knowledge these laws have not generally been enforced against tobacco or tobacco products,
even when tobacco products are not specifically excluded as hazardous substances as is the case under the
federal Substances Act. Texas, the state in which the Company intends to initially manufacture and market
the Smokeless Cigarette, has a hazardous substance law similar to the federal Substances Act, and which
to the Company’s knowledge has not been applied to tobacco or tobacco products. Unlike the Substances
Act, however, there is no specific Texas Statutory exclusion of tobacco or tobacco products. No Texas court
or agency has interpreted Texas’ hazardous substance law in the specific context of the Smokeless Cigarette.
There can therefore be no assurance that Texas or any other state will consider the Smokeless Cigarette
a tobacco product.

Properties

The Company owns no substantial tangible property. See “Business — Manufacturing” for a
description of manufacturing equipment and facilities to be acquired or leased following the closing of this
offering.

Employees

As of January 5, 1983, except for one clerical employee, the Company’s staff consisted entirely of
management, including its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer,
Vice Chairman and Chief Marketing Officer, Vice President — Administration and Vice President —
Technology. See “Management — Executive Officers and Directors.” After the completion of this offering
and prior to the anticipated first introduction of the Smokeless Cigarette into the retail market, the
Company anticipates hiring an additional four managerial personnel, including a Vice President —
Operations, Vice President — Advertising and Promotion, Vice President — Sales, and Vice President —
Finance, approximately !5 administrative employees, approximately 22 sales, research and development
and manufacturing employees and approximately 30 hourly wage manufacturing, shipping and
maintenance employees per shift.

22

op
GT
°
C1
bee
@
©
o
bah

 

650548061
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I