The Company has filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office an application to register
the trademark “FAVOR” for use in connection with its Smokeless Cigarette.

Governmental Regulation and Taxation
General

— . Governmental regulation and taxation of tobacco products, including cigarettes, generally consists
of the television advertising prohibitions and labeling requirements of the Federal Cigarette Labeling and
Advertising Act and similar state statutes or regulations, and federal and state cigarette excise taxes. The
Company believes that its Smokeless Cigarette is not subject to significant state or federal governmental
regulation or taxation. The Company's belief, however, is based primarily upon its literal interpretation
of several significant statutes and regulations applicable to certain tobacco products, but which do not
specifically include or exclude the Smokeless Cigarette as a regulated or specially taxed product. The
Company has not sought any ruling or determination, nor is it aware of any controlling precedents under
any such statutes or regulations.

FDA Cigarette Regulation

Although tobacco products are not specifically excluded from the provisions of the Federal! Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act (the “FDC Act”), the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) has refused
to assert jurisdiction over conventional cigarettes by maintaining the position that the FDC Act does not
apply to cigarettes containing nicotine or nicotine separately. The FDA’s position was affirmed in 1980
by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Action on Smoking and Health
v. Harris. To the Company’s knowledge, the FDA’s position with regard to tobacco products has been
modified only when a manufacturer of a tobacco product claims that its product is therapeutically or
medicinally beneficial as well as pleasurable or when the users of the product intend therapeutic or
medicinal effects. The Company does not claim any therapeutic or medicinal effects from the use of the
Smokeless Cigarette nor does it intend to market the Smokeless Cigarette claiming any such effects. The
Company does believe that use of the Smokeless Cigarette, unlike the use of conventional cigarettes, will
not increase the user’s risk of lung disease or cancer, but the Company does not believe that use of the
Smokeless Cigarette will reduce the user’s risk of lung disease or cancer or have a therapeutic or medicinal
effect on any user suffering such a condition. Nevertheless, users of the Smokeless Cigarette may believe
the Smokeless Cigarette has therapeutic or medicinal effects which could increase the risk that the FDA
could take the position that the Smokeless Cigarette is subject to the FDC Act.

The term “drug,” as defined in the FDC Act, includes “articles (other than food) intended to affect
the structure or any function of the body.... .” Although cigarettes and the nicotine delivered thereby do
affect certain body functions, in 1953 the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in F. T.-C. v.
Ligett & Myers Tobacco Co., construed the Federal Trade Commission Act, which employs an identical
definition of “drug,” so as to exclude conventional cigarettes from such definition. In Teaching this
conclusion, the court relied upon the legislative history of the FDC Act and administrative interpretation
of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The court noted that while cigarettes and the nicotine delivered
thereby might be deemed to have a “soothing” effect on the body, it was doubtful that Congress intended
for every substance which produces a soothing effect to be considered a “drug” for regulatory purposes.
Because of the foregoing, the Company does not believe the Smokeless Cigarette will be subject to FDA
regulation. However, should FDA regulation be imposed, introduction of the Smokeless Cigarette into the
United States market could be delayed for an indefinite period pending FDA testing, and any FDA approval
of the Smokeless Cigarette could be conditioned upon restrictions materially adverse to the Company’s
marketing efforts.

FDA Smoking Deterrent Regulation

The most recently published FDA action regarding conventional cigarettes has been its proposal in
1982 of rules on Smoking Deterrent Drug Products. The proposed rules would establish conditions under

20

o
G1
o
1
boa
®
Oo .
ey
©

 

650548059
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE