THE COMPANY

Advanced Tobacco Products, Inc. has developed and obtained United States and foreign patents
relating to a smokeless tobacco product (the “Smokeless Cigarette”) which has the appearance and feel and
provides a sensation similar to a conventional cigarette, but which delivers nicotine satisfaction to the user
through inhalation of nicotine vapor derived from a small amount of a nicotine mixture contained within
the product. The Smokeless Cigarette delivers an amount of nicotine per inhalation equivalent to that
received from a conventional combustible cigarette as well as flavorings, including menthol, similar to those
commonly used in conventional cigarettes. Because the nicotine inhaled from the Smokeless Cigarette is

~ not derived from the combustion of tobacco as is the case with a conventional cigarette, the user inhales

none of the carbon monoxide or tars Produced by tobacco combustion which the United States Surgeon
General has determined may Cause cancer and increase the risk of heart disease. In addition, use of the

therapeutic benefits.

The Company believes that most users of the Smokeless Cigarette will be smokers of conventional
cigarettes who wish to reduce their health concerns or who wish to enjoy nicotine in restricted smoking
environments or when others may be offended by conventional cigarette smoke and odor. According to
an independent study, in 1982 approximately 56 million Americans smoked 633 billion conventional
Cigarettes purchased at retail for $23.4 billion. Many of these smokers’ use of combustible cigarettes has

sampling the Smokeless Cigarette, 44% indicated they would be “very likely” to purchase the Smokeless
Cigarette on a trial basis if it were available, 30% indicated they would be “somewhat likely” to do so, and
26% indicated that it was “not too likely” that they would purchase the Smokeless Cigarette on a trial basis.
The study attempted to measure only the initial interest of consumers in the Smokeless Cigarette and may
not be indicative of a level of sustained acceptance of the Smokeless Cigarette in the markets tested or in
other markets. .

Development of the Smokeless Cigarette was commenced in 1977 by Mr. J. P. Ray, President of the
Company. During 1978 and 1979 medical tests were performed in order to confirm that regular use of the
Smokeless Cigarette resulted in delivery of an amount of nicotine to the user comparable to that delivered

States patent relating to the Smokeless Cigarette was issued on August 18, 1981 and seven foreign patents
were subsequently issued (eight additional foreign patents are pending).

650548044
ED FROM B&W WEI!

 

PRODUC]

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

 

PvOSPsSoss