DIVIDEND POLICY

The Company has not paid any dividends on its Common Stock and intends for the foreseeable future
to follow a policy of retaining earnings, if any, for use in connection with the commencement of its
operations and expansion of its business.

DILUTION

For purposes of the following discussion, no value has been assigned to the Warrants included in the
“Units being offered hereby and purchasers of the Units are considered to have paid $ per share of
Common Stock. At November 30, 1983, the net tangible book value of the Company’s Common Stock
was $362,892, or $.063 per share, after giving effect to the acquisition of the assets subject to the liabilities
of NCC Group, Ltd., and the issuance of 52,500 shares of Common Stock for $210,000 ($4.00 per share)
in a private placement in January, 1984. “Net tangible book value” represents the amount of the
Company’s tangible assets (which excludes the Company’s patent rights) less the amount of its liabilities,
Without giving effect to any other changes in such book value after November 30, 1983, but giving effect
to the sale by the Company of the Units offered by it hereby (less estimated expenses and underwriting
discounts and commissions), the pro forma net tangible book value of the Company at November 30, 1983
would have been $ per share. This represents an immediate dilution to new investors purchasing Units
in the offering of $ per share from the initial public offering price per Unit, as illustrated in the following
table. Neither the foregoing calculations nor the tables give effect to the exercise of (i) the Warrants included
in the Units, or (ii) the 165,000 Unit purchase warrants to be purchased by the Representative of the
Underwriters, which if exercised may result in additional dilution.

Public offering price ..0.........ccscsssescsscsssesssessssescoseecserssssscessevsvseeseecssateavacenes $
Net tangible book value before offering ..........:.c:ccccccscssceccescessessesseseessene $.063
Increase attnbutable to payments by new inveStOFTS .............:ccccesceseceeeseoee
Pro forma net tangible book value after offering............scscssssssscssessaseess
Dilution of net tangible book value per share to new investors.................

 

The following table compares the share ownership and cash contribution to the Company (including
its predecessors) therefor by the Company’s existing shareholders, including shareholders receiving shares
in connection with the acquisition of the assets of NCC Group, Ltd. and the above private placement, with
the share ownership and effective cash contribution to the Company therefor by persons purchasing Units
in the offering described herein.

SUN end, a ae Senge 4

 

 

Percent of
Percent Total
of Consid-
s Shares Total Consideration eration
& Purchased Shares Paid Paid
7 Existing shareholders ........ccccsssovsecceeceseseeee 5,735,100 77.7% $1,146,675 %
Purchasers in Offering .............sccessscscssesseee 1,650,000 22.3% $§$ © %

The Company’s shareholders other than purchasers of the Units have agreed not to sell any of their
shares in the public market except in compliance with the holding period, volume limitations and other
requirements of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. The shares held by such shareholders would
not become available for such sales until the period commencing in September, 1985 through the second
anniversary of this offering. See “Risk Factors — Possible Rule 144 Sales” and “Management — Certain
Transactions.”

10

op)
oT
©
a1
bee
®
OQ
hbo
CA.

 

 

650548049
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I