650548060

PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

which over-the-counter smoking deterrent products would generally be recognized as safe and effective and
not misbranded. These rules do not purport to regulate nicotine, but are intended to Tegulate those products
which claim to deter or reduce smoking. If these proposed rules become effective and if the Smokeless
Cigarette were advertised or marketed as a product to reduce or deter smoking, the Company would be
required to conform to the labeling and testing requirements of these rules as finally adopted. The Company

__ intends, however, to market the Smokeless Cigarette as a pleasurable nicotine product and not asa product

intended to reduce or deter smoking. Therefore, the Company does not believe that the Smokeless Cigarette
“would be subject to the FDA’s proposed rules. Nevertheless, the Smokeless Cigarette may be deemed to
be subject to the proposed rules because of user perceptions of the effect of the product.

Taxation of Cigarettes Under the Internal Revenue Code

The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (the “‘Code”), and the regulations promulgated
thereunder by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (the “BATF”) generally deal with the taxation
of the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and cigars. Smoking tobacco, chewing tobacco and snuff are
excluded from taxation by definitions contained in the Code and by specific BATF regulation. The Code
and BATF regulation definition of a “cigarette” includes a product which is a “roll of tobacco” wrapped
in paper or other substances. Because the Smokeless Cigarette contains a nicotine solution instead of a “roll
of tobacco,” the Company believes that it is not a “cigarette” as defined by the Code and BATF regulations.
Ina ruling (ATF Ruling 78-2) attempting to clarify the definition of “cigarette” under the Code and BATF
Regulations, the BATF held that “a cigarette-style smoking product which contains no tobacco,
tobacco-derived component or resin, nicotine or nicotine derivative is not a cigarette... .” Although the
quoted language could indicate that the BATF considers any cigarette-style smoking product which
contains nicotine to be a “cigarette” for such purposes, the BATF has not indicated by published action
whether in its view a cigarette-style nicotine product like the Smokeless Cigarette which is not smoked would
be a “cigarette” as defined in the Code or BATF regulations. See “‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Factors Bearing on Results of Future Operations ”
for a discussion of the anticipated effect of the application of current federal cigarette excise taxes to the
Smokeless Cigarette.

The Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act

The labeling requirements and television advertising prohibitions of the Federal Cigarette Labeling
and Advertising Act (the “Advertising Act”) apply only to cigarettes. The definition of “cigarette” under
the Advertising Act is identical to the “roll of tobacco” definition of “cigarette” used in the Code and the
BATF regulations. The Federal Trade Commission, the federal agency through which the Advertising Act
is enforced, has not expressly ruled on the question of whether a cigarette-style product which contains a
tobacco derived component such as nicotine would be a “cigarette” as defined in the Advertising Act.
Again, because the Smokeless Cigarette contains a nicotine solution instead of a “roll of tobacco” and in
the Company’s opinion does not give rise to the health concerns addressed by the Advertising Act, the
Company believes that the Smokeless Cigarette is not a “cigarette” as defined by the Advertising Act.
However, because the Smokeless Cigarette has the appearance of a conventional cigarette and contains
nicotine, there can be no assurance that the FTC would concur with the Company’s position. See “Risk
Factors — Governmental Regulation and Taxation,” and “— Prohibition of Television Advertising;
Federal Excise Tax” for discussions of the adverse effects of the application of the Advertising Act to the
Smokeless Cigarette.

The Federal Hazardous Substances Act

The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “Substances Act”) provides the Consumer Product Safety
Commission (“CPSC”) with the authority to regulate the labeling, packaging, manufacturing and sale of
Products determined by the CPSC to be “hazardous substances” within the meaning of the Substances Act
and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The Substances Act specifically excludes “tobacco and
tobacco products” from its scope. To the Company’s knowledge, the CPSC has not ruled on the question

21

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

 

0908PS0S9