Each holder of Warrants may exercise any or all such Warrants by surrendering the certificates
evidencing such Warrants, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side of such certificate
properly completed and executed, together with payment of the exercise price to the Warrant Agent at its
office maintained for that purpose. Such office will initially be the principal corporate trust office of the
Warrant Agent in San Antonio, Texas. The exercise price will be payable in cash in United States dollars
or by certified or official bank check payable in United States dollars to the order of the Company. No
adjustments as to dividends with respect to the shares of Common Stock of the Company will be made

— upon any exercise of Warrants. If less than all of the Warrants evidenced by a Warrant certificate are
exercised, a new certificate will be issued for the remaining number of Warrants. On or after the Separation
Date, certificates evidencing the Warrants may be exchanged for new certificates of different denominations
by presenting the Warrant certificates at the office of the Warrant Agent.

The Company is not required to issue fractional Warrants upon adjustment, or fractional shares of
Common Stock of the Company upon exercise, of the Warrants. In lieu of fractional shares, there will be
paid to the holder of the Warrants at the time of any exercise an amount in cash equal to the same fraction
of the current market value (as defined) of a share of Common Stock.

Warrantholders do not have any voting or any other rights of shareholders of the Company and are
not entitled to dividends, until the Warrants are exercised.

Warrants will not be exercisable by a Warrantholder if (a) the shares of Common Stock issuable upon
exercise of such Warrants have not been registered under the securities or blue sky laws of the state of
residence of such holder or (b) a current prospectus meeting the requirements of the laws of such state cannot
be lawfully delivered by or on behalf of the Company. Pursuant to the terms of the Warrant Agreement,
the Company has agreed to use reasonable efforts to register such shares in all states and to maintain a
current prospectus relating thereto.

Acceleration of Expiration Date

The Company may at its option accelerate the Expiration Date by giving notice to the Warrant Agent,
if the Common Stock shall have had a closing bid price of not less than 200% of the then current Warrant
exercise price per whole share of Common Stock for a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending not
more than ten calendar days immediately prior to the date of such notice. Notice of the acceleration will
be mailed to all Warrantholders and publicized in The Wall Street Journal at least 30 days, but no more
than 60 days, before the date to which the Expiration Date has been accelerated.

Conversion

At the expiration of the period during which the Warrants are exercisable, unexercised Warrants will
be converted into Common Stock at the rate of one share for each 100 unexercised Warrants (subject to
adjustment if the number of shares purchasable upon exercise of a Warrant is adjusted), without any further
action by the Warrantholder. Upon such conversion, the Warrants will become void and the Company will
mail to the registered holders of Warrants certificates for the shares of Common Stock to which they are
entitled upon surrender of their Warrant certificates. No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued
nor cash paid in lieu thereof, and any such fractional interest shall be extinguished.

Adjustments

The exercise price and the number and kind of shares of Common Stock of the Company-or other
x securities purchasable upon exercise of any Warrants and the number of Warrants are subject to adjustment
- upon the occurrence of certain events, including: the issuance of shares of Common Stock or other stock
4 of the Company as a dividend or distribution on shares of Common Stock of the Company to the holders
wd of all of its outstanding shares of Common Stock; subdivisions, combinations, or certain reclassifications
= of shares of Common Stock of the Company; the issuance to holders of shares of Common Stock of the

29

oe
G1
©
nn
oe
@
o
op)
@

 

650548068
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I