an agreement with NCC Group, Ltd., a partnership formed by Mr. Ray in August, 1982 to finance the
development and testing of the Smokeless Cigarette, under which the Company will acquire the technology
relating to the Smokeless Cigarette and other nicotine products and the United States and foreign patents
and patent applications relating to such technology. Unless the context requires otherwise, all references

~in this Prospectus to the “Company” include NCC Group, Ltd., Mr. Ray and other owners of the patents
and technology to be acquired by the Company through NCC Group, Ltd. The Company’s principal offices
and facilities are located at 2929 Mossrock, Suite 130, San Antonio, Texas 78230, and its telephone number
is (512) 340-5892.

RISK FACTORS

The Units offered hereby are speculative and involve a high degree of risk. In analyzing this offering,
prospective investors should carefully consider, among others, the matters set forth below.

1. Uncertain Market and Competition

The Company is not aware of any previous attempt to market a product intended to provide nicotine
pleasure other than conventional combustible or smokeless tobacco products such as conventional
cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco and snuff. The Company believes that there is no market history for
nicotine products which would provide a reliable basis for estimating the potential market for the Smokeless
Cigarette or the advertising and promotional costs required to develop such a market. Furthermore, because
the Smokeless Cigarette delivers nicotine vapor to its user, the Company does not consider the Smokeless
Cigarette to be similar to recently introduced cigarette substitute products such as non-tobacco combustible
cigarettes or special filters designed to eliminate or reduce the use of nicotine. However, there isa risk that
the Smokeless Cigarette may encounter market resistance due to a perception that it is another cigarette
substitute which eliminates or reduces the user’s inhalation of nicotine. The Smokeless Cigarette may also
encounter resistance to the extent conventional cigarette smokers regard the inhalation of the smoke
produced by tobacco combustion to be an essential part of their cigarette smoking enjoyment.

In addition to the risks associated with consumer acceptance of the Smokeless Cigarette, there is a
substantial competitive risk associated with the fact that the Company’s resources available for promotional
activities and advertising will be small when compared to the resources of most manufacturers of
conventional cigarettes and other potential competitors. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to compete effectively with manufacturers of conventional tobacco products or of
any competitive nicotine delivery products not yet developed, will be able to defend successfully its patent
rights, or that the market for the Smokeless Cigarette will be substantial and within the Company’s financial
ability to develop. Furthermore, the Company’s marketing strategy relies to a significant extent on the
anticipated use of television advertising, which is prohibited under federal law as to conventional cigarettes.
This law has not been interpreted in the context of the Smokeless Cigarette. See “Risk Factors — Untested
Patents” and ““— Governmental Regulation.”

, « ‘ ry
The Company was formed in April, 1983, under the name S. A. Vend, Inc., which was changed to
Advanced Tobacco Products, Inc. in January, 1984. On September 19, 1983, the Company entered into

#

2. Lack of Sales and Earnings

During the past five years the Company’s activities have consisted of product development, clinical
and consumer testing and the development of promotional and advertising plans. The Company has not
yet commenced commercial scale manufacturing or retail sales of its Smokeless Cigarette. During the period
from commencement of the operations of NCC Group, Ltd. in August, 1982, through November 30, 1983,
the Company had no sales and NCC Group, Ltd. had an accumulated net loss of $370,568. The Company
does not anticipate that it will have significant sales or operate at a profit for at least twelve months after
the date of this Prospectus. Furthermore, the Company anticipates that its operations will result in decreases
in its working capital for at least 24 months after the date of this Prospectus because initial retail sales are
not expected until approximately twelve months after this offering and because a significant amount of
working capital is expected to be used as inventory and accounts receivable increase prior to and after the

phigh

bat bestia

6

o”
1
©
a
bade
®
o
i
a1

 

 

650548045
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I