— to that enjoyed by smokers of conventional cigarettes while avoiding the principal negative effects of
~ cigarette smoking. The number of conventional cigarette smokers who will purchase and use the Smokeless
Cigarette on a sustained basis, however, cannot be reliably estimated. Nevertheless, the Company believes
that its profitability does not require a large percentage penetration of the conventional cigarette market
because an independent study indicates that in 1982 there were approximately 56 million American
smokers smoking approximately 633 billion conventional cigarettes at a retail cost of approximately $23.4
billion (and that in 1981 more than four trillion conventional cigarettes were manufactured worldwide).

Although the Surgeon General and other medical researchers have concluded that many of the
products of the combustion of tobacco known popularly as “‘tar” (including aza-arenes, turmorigenic
hydrocarbons, arsinious oxide and radioactive polonium compounds) are carcinogens, nicotine is not
known to the Company to have ever been shown to be a cause of cancer or lung disease. In the November 17,
1983, prepublication release of the Surgeon General’s report entitled The Health Consequences of Smoking:
Cardiovascular Disease (“the 1983 Surgeon General’s Report’’), the Surgeon General indicates that the
increased risk of heart disease is even a greater hazard to smokers of conventional cigarettes than the
increased risk of cancer. The 1983 Surgeon General’s Report and other medical literature believed by the
Company to be responsible suggest that the carbon monoxide resulting from burning tobacco may increase
smokers’ risk of cardiovascular disease. Although noting that use of nicotine may negatively effect the
operation of the cardiovascular system, the Surgeon General indicates that the exact mechanisms whereby
nicotine might influence cardiovascular events are unknown. Furthermore, the Surgeon General and many
other medical commentators have not shown nicotine to be a primary contributor to the hazards of inhaling
cigarette smoke and there is a significant body of scientific opinion to the effect that cigarette smokers
experience pleasurable, though not therapeutic, pharmacological effects from inhaling nicotine and that
these pleasurable effects may be the primary reason many individuals continue cigarette smoking in spite
of health warnings and negative social consequences.

The 1983 Surgeon General’s Report states that:

BUSINESS
Introduction
The Company believes that the Surgeon General’s determination that cigarette smoking is dangerous
to smokers’ health and the legal and social trend toward the protection of non-smokers from the effects
of cigarette smoke have created a market for a product that delivers nicotine in a form and manner similar

“One should not ignore the proportion of the population that continues to smoke, nor
should one accept unchallenged the concept of a ‘safe’ cigarette. The main objective is to reduce
the harmful constituents present in tobacco smoke. It is probable that promotion of

; ultra-low-yield products will not suffice, since compensatory mechanisms may be triggered by
F sensory needs for taste as well as for nicotine.

“A cigarette considered less harmful for cancer etiology might not reduce the risk for
coronary disease. It appears to be a formidable task to develop a product that satisfies the smoker
and does not increase disease risk through exposure to carbon monoxide, cyanide, nitrous oxide,
or still unknown agents.”

The Company believes that the Smokeless Cigarette does not contain the harmful constituents
. referred to in the Surgeon General’s Report, but responds to conventional cigarette smokers’ sensory needs
g for taste and nicotine. However, the Smokeless Cigarette was not tested by or on behalf of the Surgeon
General and the 1983 Surgeon General’s Report concluded that it is unlikely that a “‘safe cigarette” can
be developed that will reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease.

The conventional cigarette industry has responded to the public’s health concerns relating to cigarette
smoking primarily with two general innovations: filtered cigarettes and low tar cigarettes. Most low tar and

Be)

on)
ay
©
aT
bee
@
S
oi
baa

 

650548054
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I