The exercise price of the warrants is equal to 120% of the initial public offering price. The exercise
price and the number of Units issuable upon exercise of the warrants are subject to adjustment in order
to protect the holders thereof against dilution in certain events.

For the life of the Unit purchase warrants, the holders thereof are given an opportunity to benefit from

a rise in the market price of the Units and Company’s Common Stock with a resulting dilution in the

—interests of other shareholders. Holders of such warrants might be expected to exercise them at a time when

the Company would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain any needed capital by a new offering of securities
on terms more favorable than those provided by the warrants.

Other Matters

The Company has agreed to indemnify the several Underwriters against certain liabilities, including
liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

The shareholders of the Company (other than purchasers of Units), have agreed to refrain from selling
any shares of the Company’s Common Stock in the public market for a period of two years after the dates
of their purchases without the prior written consent of the Representative of the Underwriters. See “Risk
Factors — Possible Rule 144 Sales.”

The Underwriters do not intend to confirm sales to any accounts over which they exercise
discretionary authority.

Edward C. Gardere, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the
Representative, is a director of the Company. See “Management.”

LEGAL MATTERS

Certain legal matters in connection with the validity of the securities offered hereby will be passed
upon for the Company by Matthews & Branscomb, San Antonio, Texas. Jackson, Walker, Winstead,
Cantwell & Miller, Dallas, Texas is acting as counsel for the Underwriters in connection with certain legal
matters relating to the securities offered hereby. Matthews & Branscomb and certain of its members will
own 276,655 shares of Common Stock after giving effect to the offering and the acquisition of the assets
of NCC Group, Ltd.

_ EXPERTS

The historical financial statements included in this prospectus and in the registration statement have
been examined by Deloitte Haskins & Sells, independent public accountants, as stated in their opinions
appearing herein, and have been so included in reliance upon such opinions given upon the authority of
that firm as experts in accounting and auditing.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., a
Registration Statement under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to the Common Stock offered hereby.
This Prospectus does not contain all the information set forth in the Registration Statement, certain portions
of which have been omitted pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Commission. Such information
is available for inspection at the principal office of the Commission in Washington, D.C. Copies of the
material contained in the Registration Statement may be obtained from the Commission upon payment
of the fees prescribed by its rules and regulations.

nr
Sil
©
aT
ee
@
Q
a}
QO

 

650548073
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I