Competition

The Company believes that its principal competitors will be manufacturers of conventional cigarettes,
most, if not all, of which have financial, promotional, advertising, manufacturing and other resources
substantially in excess of the Company’s. The Company’s ability to finance promotional activities is small
when compared with such large and experienced competitors. However, because the Smokeless Cigarette
is a novel concept in the delivery of nicotine satisfaction, the Company believes that the promotional and
advertising costs required to introduce its product will be substantially less than the costs normally incurred

“Gn the introduction of a conventional cigarette brand into the highly competitive conventional cigarette
tarket. The Company believes the use of television advertising would also provide the Company with a
competitive advantage over conventional cigarette manufacturers who are prohibited by the Federal
Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act from advertising conventional cigarette products on television.
Further, since the Company anticipates that the direct manufacturing costs of a pack of Smokeless
Cigarettes will be no greater than a pack of conventional cigarettes with less nicotine delivery capacity, the
Company anticipates that it will be able to offer a substantial cost per unit advantage to the consumer, if
necessary for competitive purposes, because of the heavy tax component of the retail price of conventional
cigarettes. The Company intends, however, initially to sell packs of six Smokeless Cigarettes at
approximately the same factory price as most packs of 20 conventional cigarettes. In addition to other
factors, the Company anticipates that it will enjoy a direct manufacturing cost advantage over
manufacturers of conventional cigarettes because the Company’s manufacturing equipment will be less
complicated, resulting in a smaller percentage of skilled labor among manufacturing personnel and because
costly handling and storage of tobacco will not be required. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business — Markets and Marketing,” ‘*—
Manufacturing” and ““— Governmental Regulation and Taxation.”

In addition to manufacturers of conventional cigarettes, the Company will be competing with
manufacturers of conventional smokeless tobacco products, many, if not all, of which also have financial,
promotional, advertising, manufacturing and other resources far greater than those of the Company. The
Company may also experience substantial competition from manufacturers of future nicotine delivery
products similar to the Smokeless Cigarette unless the Company is able successfully to assert patent
infringement actions with respect to such products. See “Risk Factors — Untested Patent Protection” and
“Business — Patents and Trademarks.”

Manufacturing

While the Smokeless Cigarette resembles a conventional cigarette, it consists of two filter rods of a
type commonly used by manufacturers of filter tipped conventional cigarettes, wrapped with a paper
laminate and commonly used tipping paper. One of the filter rods constitutes the part of the Smokeless
Cigarette into which the nicotine is introduced and the other rod is the up which is placed in the user’s
mouth. The Smokeless Cigarette can be manufactured by modified versions of machines in common use
by manufacturers of filter tipped conventional cigarettes.

The manufacture of the Smokeless Cigarette will involve substantially the same steps as the
manufacture of conventional filter tipped cigarettes except that the difficult tasks of dealing with thin
cigarette paper and maintaining proper packed tobacco density will not be involved. The two types of filter
rods used in the product will be fed into a combiner machine which will cut the filter rods into desired lengths
and wrap them in alternating order with a laminated paper. The combiner will then cut the alternating filter
rod assembly into lengths constituting two cigarettes each. These double length assemblies will then be fed
into a tipping machine which will wrap commonly available tipping paper around the center of each
assembly and then cut it at the center point, resulting in two tipped Smokeless Cigarettes.

The Smokeless Cigarettes will then be injected with a small amount of a nicotine solution by the use
ofa needle load injector commonly used by the felt-tip pen industry. Nicotine solution in volumes sufficient

&SO8PSO0S9

 

 

650548057
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

I
W
rn
4
I