Terms of Sale

The Underwriters propose initially to offer the Units to the public at the initial offering price set forth
on the cover page of this Prospectus and to certain dealers at such price less a concession of not more than
$ per Unit. The Underwriters may allow, and such dealers may reallow, a concession of not more than
$ per Unit on sales to other dealers. After the initial public offering, the public offering price, concession
and reallowances may be changed by the Representative of the Underwriters.

- There has been no previous public market for the Units, the Warrants or the Common Stock. The
initial public offering price of the Units and the exercise price of the Warrants will be determined by
negotiations between the Company and the Representative of the Underwriters. Factors that will be
considered in determining such prices will include, among other things, the market potential for the
Company’s products, the Company’s earnings potential, an assessment of the Company’s management,
general conditions of the securities markets at the time of the offering, demand for similar securities of other
issuers and other factors.

The Units are offered by the Underwriters subject to receipt and acceptance by them, to their right
to reject any order in whole or in part, to the approval of certain legal matters by counsel and to certain
other conditions. It is expected that delivery of the Units will be made against payment therefor in Dallas,
Texas on or about , 1984,

Over-Allotment Option

The Company has granted to the Underwriters an option, exercisable within 30 days after the date
of this Prospectus, to purchase up to an additional 247,500 Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the
initial public offering price less the underwriting discount set forth on the cover page of this Prospectus.

After the commencement of this offering, the Underwriters may confirm sales of Units subject to the
over-allotment option. As a result, the Underwriters could have a short position equal to or in excess of
the number of Units issuable upon exercise of the option. If the market price of the Units were to rise during
the term of the option, the Underwriters will be protected from risk of loss on the Units subject to the
over-allotment option through their ability to cover any short position by purchases of the necessary Units
at the offering price less the underwriting discount. If the Underwriters purchase any of the 247,500
additional Units, each of the Underwriters will have a firm commitment, subject to certain conditions, to
purchase approximately the same percentage thereof which the number of Units to be purchased by it as
shown in the foregoing table bears to 247,500. Any purchase of Units pursuant to the over-allotment option
will result in the realization by the Underwriters of additional underwriting compensation to the extent of
the underwriting discount applicable to such Units.

Unit Purchase Warrants

The Company has agreed, for a price of $165 and in further consideration of obtaining competent
investment banking services, to sell to Schneider, Bernet & Hickman, Inc., the Represgntative of the
Underwriters, concurrently with the purchase by the Underwriters of the Units being offered hereby, five
year Unit purchase warrants covering an aggregate of 165,000 Units. All shares of Common Stock issuable
upon the exercise of the Warrants underlying the Units subject to such warrants will be issuable out of the
authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock of the Company. Such Warrants may be exercised as
to all or any lesser number of Units covered thereby commencing twelve months after the date of this
Prospectus and are non-transferrable except to (i) successors to the Representative in merger or
consolidation; (ii) purchasers of substantially all of the Representative’s assets; and (311) officer-shareholders
of the Representative or shareholders or partners of its transferees in the event of liquidation or dissolution.
The warrants contain provisions which require, under certain circumstances, the Company to register the
Units underlying such warrants and the shares of Common Stock underlying the Warrants constituting a
part of such Units for resale to the public at its sole cost and expense.

22.08PS0s9s

33

 

650548072
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I