ye

650548063

PRODUC]

ED FROM Bé&W WEI

 

International Flavors & Fragrances, Inc. From 1970 to 1974 Dr. Hill served as Manager, Research and
Development, Environmental Planning, of Monsanto Industrial Chemicals Co.

Mr. Simonsen was Vice President — Human Relations of Datapoint Corporation from February,
1978 until December, 1983. From 1970 until February, 1978 Mr. Simonsen was Director of Industrial
Relations of Datapoint Corporation.
“Mr. Crosby is a founder of Prime Cable Corporation and Telesystems International Corporation,
operators of cable television systems in the United States and Switzerland, respectively. Mr. Crosby is also
a founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Rust Investment Corporation and the managing
general partner of Rust Capital, Ltd., a privately owned small business investment company, and isa general
partner of Rust Ventures, Ltd., a venture capital limited partnership. Mr. Crosby also serves on the boards
of directors of Texas American Bancshares Corporation (a bank holding company), Orion Pictures Corp.
(an entertainment company), Buckhorn, Inc. (a conglomerate), and Evergreen Capital Corp. (a venture
capital firm), Mr. Crosby has been active in the cable television and venture capital business through the
activities described above and in other enterprises for more than the past five years.

Mr. Gardere, a director of the Company since December, 1983, has been Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Schneider, Bernet & Hickman, Inc., the Representative of the
Underwriters, for more than the last five years.

Mr. Richards, a director of the Company since December, 1983, has been President and Chief
Executive Officer of The Richards Group, Inc., of which he is the founder, for more than the last five years.

Directors are elected by the Company’s shareholders for a term which continues until the next annual
meeting of the Company’s shareholders or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified.
The Company’s officers are elected by the Board of Directors of the Company and hold office until their
respective successors are duly elected and qualified.

Remuneration

None of the officers or directors have received cash remuneration from the Company aggregating
$60,000 or at a rate which would aggregate $60,000 on an annual basis except for Mr. Ray who has received
a consultation fee at a rate of $60,000 per year from NCC Group, Ltd. since its inception in August of 1982.

The following table sets forth certain information concerning the remuneration which the Company
anticipates will be paid to or accrued for the account of certain executive officers of the Company and to
all such executives as a group for services to the Company in all capacities during the 12 month period
following the completion of this offering.

Name of Individual Cash
or Identity of Group Capacity Remuneration
Gerald R. Mazur Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive $100,000
Officer and Treasurer
J.P. Ray President, Chief Operating Officer and 100,000.
Secretary
Edmund G. Vimond, Jr. Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief 60,000
Marketing Officer
James D. Simonsen(1) Vice President — Administration 50,000
Ira D. Hill(2) Vice President — Technology 25,000
All such officers as a group
(5 persons) $335,000
24

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

C908PSO0S9