PROSPECTUS SUMMARY

The following summary is qualified in its entirety by the detailed information and financial statements
appearing elsewhere in this Prospectus.

THE COMPANY

Advanced Tobacco Products, Inc. has developed a patented smokeless tobacco product (the
“Smokeless Cigarette”) which has the appearance and feel and provides a sensation similar to a
—conventional cigarette, but which delivers nicotine satisfaction to the user by inhalation of nicotine vapor
in a manner not requiring the combustion of tobacco. The Smokeless Cigarette delivers an amount of
nicotine per inhalation comparable to that received per inhalation from conventional cigarettes and
contains flavorings similar to those commonly used in conventional cigarettes. Because the use of the
Smokeless Cigarette does not involve the combustion of tobacco, the user inhales none of the carbon
monoxide or tars produced by tobacco combustion which the United States Surgeon General has
determined may cause cancer and increase the risk of heart disease. In addition, the Smokeless Cigarette
does not expose the user or others to smoke and the related odor associated with the use of conventional
cigarettes and, as a result, may be enjoyed where conventional cigarette smoking is prohibited or is socially
unacceptable.

The Company intends to market the Smokeless Cigarette as a pleasurable nicotine product and not
as a product intended to discourage or reduce smoking or to have therapeutic benefits. The Company
believes most users of the Smokeless Cigarette will be smokers of conventional cigarettes who wish to reduce
their health concerns or who wish to enjoy the inhalation of nicotine in smoking restricted environments.

During the past five years the Company’s activities have included product development, clinical and
consumer testing, and the development of promotional and advertising plans. The Company intends to
finance its initial product marketing, including television advertising, and commercial scale production
with the proceeds of this offering.

THE OFFERING

Securities Offered 1,650,000 Units (the “Units”), each consisting of one share of Common
Stock and one Warrant to purchase one-half share of Common Stock.
Even multiples of Warrants may be exercised to purchase shares of
Common Stock at a price of $ per whole share, commencing on
, 1984, and expiring on . 1986, unless such date is

accelerated by the Company under certain terms and conditions.(1)

Common Stock Outstanding

After Offering

Use of Proceeds

7,385,100 shares.(1)

Approximately $4,450,000 to finance advertising and promotional costs;
$1,500,000 to finance the purchase of manufacturing equipment:
$700,000 to finance the production of inventory necessary to
commence commercial scale operations; $350,000 to finance
leasehold improvements; $250,000 to finance market research;
$1,150,000 to finance anticipated operating losses prior to
commencement of commercial scale operations; and the balance for
additions to working capital. See “Use of Proceeds.”

Risk Factors The Units offered hereby involve a high degree of risk and substantia!
dilution. See “Risk Factors” and “Dilution.” .

7 Proposed NASDAQ Symbols .. Units: ATPU; Warrants: ATPW; Common Stock: ATPI

 

(1) Excludes 825,000 shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, 247,500 shares of
Common Stock which may be sold pursuant to the Underwriters’ over-allotment option to purchase 247,500 Units
and up to 123,750 shares issuable upon the exercise of Warrants included in such Units, and 247,500 sharesofCommon
Stock issuable upon exercise of Unit purchase warrants to be purchased by the Representative of the Underwriters and
upon the exercise of Warzants included in the Units covered by such warrants.

 

2bO8SPsos9s

 

650548042
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I