the Securities Act applicable to “restricted securities,” even though 4,692,122 of such shares issuable in
connection with the acquisition of the Smokeless Cigarette patent rights are covered by the Registration
Statement of which this Prospectus is a part and, absent such an agreement, the holders of such shares would
generally be able to resell their shares free of such restrictions. Unless previously waived by the
Representative of the Underwriters, this agreement will result in the eligibility for sales in the public market
of 990,478 of the currently outstanding shares of Common Stock beginning in September, 1985, 52,500
~~ shares beginning in January, 1986, and the balance (4,692,122 shares) two years following the completion
- of this offering. The availability of such shares for resale may have an adverse effect on the market price
for the Company’s Common Stock.

8. Dependence on Key Personnel

The Company will be heavily dependent on the efforts of certain of its executive officers. The loss
of the services of one or more of these individuals could materially adversely affect the Company. See
“‘Management.” Futhermore, the Company’s anticipated operations will require it to employ and train a
significant number of additional employees. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
in recruiting or retaining personnel of the requisite caliber or in the requisite number to enable the Company
to conduct its business as proposed. See “Business — Employees.”

9. Possible Products Liability Claims

Because the Smokeless Cigarette is a novel nicotine delivery product, the Company may be subjected
to products liability claims from persons who use the Smokeless Cigarette in the manner intended by the
Company. However, the Company believes that normal use of the Smokeless Cigarette is no more harmful,
if at all, than the inhalation of nicotine through the smoking of conventional cigarettes. The Smokeless
Cigarette contains an amount of nicotine comparable to that contained in some brands of conventional
cigarettes and less than is contained in most cigars. As is the case with conventional cigarettes and cigars,
the amount of nicotine contained in a Smokeless Cigarette may be harmful if swallowed. Consequently,
the Company may be subjected to products liability claims from persons who may use the Smokeless
Cigarettes in ways not anticipated or intended by the Company. The packages in which the Smokeless
Cigarettes will be sold will bear a warning that the Smokeless Cigarette may be harmful if swallowed.

USE OF PROCEEDS

The net proceeds from the sale of the 1,650,000 Units offered hereby are estimated to be
approximately $ , excluding any proceeds from any exercise of the Underwriter’s over-allotment option
or from any exercise of Warrants. Of the net proceeds, approximately $4,450,000 will be used to finance
advertising and promotional costs, $1,500,000 to purchase, modify and refurbish manufacturing
equipment necessary to commence commercial scale operations, $350,000 to finance leasehold
improvements to the Company’s initial manufacturing facility, $250,000 to finance market research,

2 3 $700,000 to finance the production of inventory necessary to commence commercial! scale operations,
& $1,150,000 to finance anticipated operating losses prior to commencement of commercial scale operations,
oe and the remainder for additional working capital. Pending the above uses, the net proceeds will be invested
$ in short-term, interest-bearing obligations, such as certificates of deposit issued by banks, government

z obligations and money market securities.
The Company anticipates that the net proceeds from this offering, together with cash on hand, will
be sufficient to finance its operations for at least twelve months following the completion of this offering.
: See “Risk Factors — Lack of Sales and Earnings” and “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial

4 Condition and Results of Operations.”

o
a
°
a
pa
®
2
i
®

 

650548048
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE