650548052

PRODUC]

 

ED FROM

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Liquidity and Capital Resources

During the past five years the Company’s activities have consisted of product development, clinical
and consumer testing and the development of promotional and advertising plans. During the period from
the commencement of operations of NCC Group, Ltd. in August, 1982, through November 30, 1983, the
Company had no sales and NCC Group, Ltd. had an accumulated net loss of $370,568. The Company
has not yet commenced retail sales or commercial scale manufacturing of its Smokeless Cigarette.

The Company’s only source of capital to date has been the net proceeds from the sale in 1981 of
$500,000 of units of limited partnership interest in its predecessor NCC Group, Ltd., and from the sale
of 52,500 shares of Common Stock in a private placement in January, 1984 for $210,000. Until the
commercial introduction of its Smokeless Cigarette, the Company’s only anticipated source of cash, other
than income from the short term investment of its cash on hand, will be the net proceeds from the sale
of the Units. Upon the completion of this offering the Company will have net cash resources of
approximately $ , of which approximately $1,850,000 will be used during the six-month period
following the completion of this offering to purchase, modify and refurbish manufacturing equipment and
to make leasehold improvements to its initial manufacturing facility. During the two-year period following
completion of this offering the Company plans to apply approximately $4,700,000 to advertising and
promotional costs and market research. Approximately $700,000 will be required to finance the production
of the Company’s initial inventory of Smokeless Cigarettes believed to be necessary to commence
commercial operations. As a result of the foregoing and other anticipated expenditures, the Company
anticipates that approximately $ of the Company’s cash on hand and net proceeds of this offering will
be available to finance the Company’s other cash expenditures until positive cash flow from operations,
if any, is achieved. See ‘Use of Proceeds.”

The Company anticipates the initial commercial introduction of its Smokeless Cigarette and the
receipt of initial revenues from operations no earlier than the first anniversary of the completion of this
offering. Accordingly, the Company expects that its operations will continue to result in operating losses
for at least twelve months after this offering. Furthermore, the Company anticipates that its operations will
result in decreases in its working capital for at least 24 months after this offering because initial retail sales
are not expected until approximately twelve months after this offering and because a significant amount
of working capital is expected to be used as inventory and accounts receivable increase prior to and after
the commencement of initial retail sales. Nevertheless, assuming no internally generated revenues other
than income from short-term investment of available cash, and the anticipated addition of employees
consistent with the Company’s current business plan, the Company anticipates that its cash on hand,
together with the net proceeds of this offering, will be sufficient to meet its anticipated cash requirements
for at least the twelve-month period following completion of this offering. There can be no assurance,
however, that the Company’s actual losses will not be greater than anticipated or that its available cash
will in fact be sufficient to meet its cash requirements.

Certain Factors Bearing on Results of Future Operations

Anticipated Unit Manufacturing Costs and Revenues. The Company plans to market its Smokeless
Cigarettes in packs of six, which packs are intended to have a nicotine delivery capacity sufficient to satisfy
the average smoker of conventional cigarettes for an entire day, for a factory selling price of approximately
60 cents per pack. The Company believes that such price is the approximate average factory selling price
for packs of 20 conventional cigarettes. The Company anticipates that the manufacturing cost, including
manufacturing overhead, of the Smokeless Cigarette will be approximately 22 cents per pack of six at the
commencement of commercial scale production, assuming the manufacturing of approximately 200,000

13

 

 

 

 

B&W WEI

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

eSO8tsoss