to meet the Company’s foreseeable needs is available from a number of sources outside of the conventional
cigarette and smokeless tobacco product industry. The finished Smokeless Cigarettes will then be fed into
packing and wrapping machines commonly used in the conventional cigarette industry.

The Company has obtained a commitment from a supplier to provide, modify and refurbish four dual
rod combiners at a price of $50,000 each ($200,000 total), four tipping machines at $25,000 each
($100,000 total), four packers at $150,000 each ($600,000 total), four wrappers at $27,500 each ($110,000

_.. total) and four needle load injectors at $30,000 each ($120,000 total). The Company believes that these

machines will provide it with four manufacturing lines with a combined sustained manufacturing capability

“of approximately one million Smokeless Cigarettes per eight-hour shift. Operation of these four

manufacturing lines will require approximately 7,500 square feet of floor space and approximately

30 production personnel per shift. The Company has obtained a commitment for the lease of a 20,000

square foot facility, on a 40 acre tract, to be constructed in the San Antonio metropolitan area in which

to establish its initial four line manufacturing facility. The lease will provide for a three year initial term

and two successive five year renewal terms, at a rental rate of $.93 per square foot (depending on final
construction costs) plus cost of living adjustments during the renewal terms,

The Company’s cost analysis indicates that its manufacturing cost of a pack of six Smokeless
Cigarettes with a nicotine delivery capacity approximately equivalent to a twenty cigarette pack of
conventional cigarettes will be approximately 16 cents, assuming the manufacturing of 800,000 Smokeless
Cigarettes per eight hour shift using the manufacturing equipment described above. The Company
anticipates that its maximum output per eight hour shift in its contemplated manufacturing facility will
be approximately 800,000 Smokeless Cigarettes. There can be no assurance that the demand for the
Smokeless Cigarette will be sufficient to justify the manufacturing of 800,000 Smokeless Cigarettes per shift
and the Company anticipates that its unit manufacturing costs will be higher at lower levels of production.
See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Certain
Factors Bearing on Results of Operations.”

Patents and Trademarks

The Company is the owner of United States Patent No. 4,284,089, which issued on August 18, 1981,
and will expire on August 18, 1998. This patent relates to the technology underlying the Smokeless
Cigarette, The Company has been advised by its patent counsel that the product which it intends to market,
as well as the process which it intends to use in manufacturing its product, do not infringe any known existing
patent rights of other parties. Three additional United States patent applications have been filed in the
ordinary course of the Company’s research and development activities with regard to nicotine delivery. The
Company cannot predict whether any particular patent applied for will be granted.

The Company is also the owner of patents issued by seven foreign countries and currently pending
patent applications in eight foreign countries paralleling its United States patent. The Company intends
to seek additional foreign patents in selected countries paralleling currently pending United States patent
applications.

The Company is not able to determine at this time whether its patents or those which may eventually
issue from pending applications will secure long term competitive advantages for the Company. None of
the Company’s patent rights have been litigated or subjected to judicial scrutiny and the Company believes
i that many courts have been unsympathetic to the holders of patents relating to relatively simple inventions

such as the Smokeless Cigarette in patent infringement actions seeking to assert such patents. Therefore,
ifthe Company’s patent rights are tested in litigation, there can be no assurance that patent rights affording
substantial competitive protection to the Company will be upheld or that such rights would prevent the
marketing of competing products similar in concept to the Smokeless Cigarette. Therefore it is possible that

 

if a competitor could demonstrate a significant difference between the form of a competing product or the a

related manufacturing process and the Smokeless Cigarette, the Company would not be able to prevent ao

the competitor from marketing such a product. The Company intends vigorously to defend its patent rights a

against infringement by competitors, but the Company’s limited resources may make it difficult or fone

impossible to sustain any such defenses, however meritorious. @®

ay =
3 19 oo

 

650548058
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I