sae

ibe.

DESCRIPTION OF UNITS

Each Unit offered hereby consists of one share of Common Stock and one Warrant. Each Warrant
will entitle the holder to purchase one-half share of Common Stock ofthe Company. The shares of Common
Stock and the Warrants constituting the Units will not be separately transferable prior to the Separation
Date, which is , 1984 (90 days after this offering), or such earlier date as may be designated by
the Company, with the consent of the Representatives of the Underwriters. Prior to the Separation Date,

_each Unit will be transferable only as a whole and any transfer of the shares of Common Stock offered as
part of such Unit will constitute a transfer of the holder’s interest in the Warrant included in such Unit.
Each certificate representing shares of Common Stock of the Company issued prior to the Separation Date
to purchasers of Units will bear a legend stating that it also evidences the right to receive one Warrant for
each share of Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Deposit Agreement (as hereinafter defined). On
and after the Separation Date, the share certificates will represent only shares of Common Stock.

In order to facilitate the foregoing, the Company will enter into a Deposit Agreement (“Deposit
Agreement”) with Frost National Bank (San Antonio), as Depositary. A copy of the Deposit Agreement
is filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement of which this Prospectus is a part. The Deposit Agreement
will provide that, upon issuance of the Units and prior to the Separation Date, the Warrants will be held
by the Depositary. As soon as practicable after the Separation Date, the Depositary will deliver the Warrants
to the Warrant Agent (as hereinafter defined) for distribution to the persons who, at the close of business
on the day prior to the Separation Date, are the registered owners of the shares of Common Stock forming
a part of the Units. No fractional Warrants will be issued in connection with any such distribution, and
holders of Units will not be entitled to any cash payment or other compensation in respect of a fractional
Warrant that otherwise would have been issued. The Company will bear the cost of any transfer or
documentary stamp taxes payable in connection with the delivery of Warrants to the registered owners of
such shares of Common Stock, but will not be responsible for the payment of any such taxes upon delivery
of Warrants to any other person. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Company, with the consent of the
Representative, separates the Units prior to the closing date of this offering, the shares of Common Stock
and the Warrants will be delivered separately on such closing date and the Deposit Agreement will not be
entered into.

DESCRIPTION OF WARRANTS
The Warrants will be issued in registered form pursuant to the terms of a Warrant Agreement to be
dated as of ; 1984 (the “Warrant Agreement”), between the Company and Frost National Bank,

as Warrant Agent. Prior to the Separation Date, the Warrants may not be exercised and the certificates
evidencing the Warrants and shares of Common Stock constituting the Units may not be separated or
transferred separately. The Representative has advised the Company that it expects that the Warrants and
the Common Stock will be traded separately after the Separation Date. The following statements are
summaries of certain provisions of the Warrant Agreement, copies of which may be examined at the
principal corporate trust offices of the Warrant Agent and a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to the
Registration Statement. The following statements are ‘subject to the detailed provisions of the Warrant
Agreement.

Rights to Purchase Shares of Common Stock

Each Warrant will entitle the registered holder to purchase from the Company one-half share of
Common Stock at the exercise price set forth on the cover page of this Prospectus during the period
commencing from the Separation Date and through the close of business on , 1986, or such later
date as the Company may determine in its sole discretion upon giving at least six months prior notice to
the Warrant Agent and any stock exchanges on which the Warrants may be listed (the “Expiration Date”),
except that, under the circumstances described below, the Expiration Date may be accelerated by the
Company. The Warrants may only be exercised by the registered holders thereof in even multiples of
Warrants. The exercise price, the number of shares of Common Stock purchasable upon exercise, and the
number of Warrants are subject to adjustment as described below.

28

£908PS0S9

 

650548067

PRODUC]

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

ED FROM Bé&W WEI