Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Nine

JB: Um huh.

AK: The second set of three digits would represent the state sen-
ate district number, or 040 for the 40th senate district, and then
your assembly district 048 or 055, or whatever it happens to be;
and, then, in the situation like you've got in New Hampshire or in
New York, where you've got more than two digit numbers for the dis-
trict numbers, that would be where the third digit would be used.

JB: Um huh.

AK: For 112, for example in the last three digits, would be the
112th assembly district. I'm just picking numbers out of the air.

JB: Now, the only way that could be put into the system, though,
is for the state director to provide that on transfer sheets, right?

AK: You've got it.
JB: O.K.

AK: Q.K. Now, in my states, almost all of the transfer sheets
have gone in with that information. Now, in Project ENTER, for
time purposes, we have not done it. We have just sent in the top
. $ix lines, and on the transfer sheet it shows "no answer" for every-
- thing below those top six lines. We are going to have to go back
and £111 out those and send in changes, but it's not going to be
any major conversion problem for you guys at this stage, unless you
feel you need it, and if you feel you need it, as long as those nine
‘digits are available to you, you can send in transfer sheets on new
enrollees and include the legislative district numbers. Or, if you
have already sent in legislative district numbers on your transfer
Cannell assures me that, that is, in fact, in the computer.
But they just don't print it up. So what we need is to find a sys-
tem where it can come out on the print-out. And, they have more
than one line in those enrollee lists available. They are only
using one line right now except for addresses. If you guys have
got an enrollment list near by, for example, as you read across
the page your first set of five digits is obviously the zip code,
then they get into a three letter designation for the first three
letters of the last name and then a 1 or a 2 or a 3 designating
which entry it was. Those are apparently necessary for the compu-
ter to be able pull things by zip code. 0.K? But, then you get
into the name colum: if you happen to have somebody who has like,
John Doe/235 Central Avenue/Billings, Montana - the name John Doe
is going to appear in the second column - 0.K? But, if John Doe
has an apartment number, then John Doe's name will appear in the
second column, the apartment number in the third and then the 235
Central Avenue will switch back and be a second line down under-
neath the name in the second column. Alright? Which shows that
the computer can use a second line. Now, what I'm suggesting to
Cannell, is that they tell us mechanically how they need to print

TNWL 0053840