Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Four

AK: O.K. What I am saying is it would be extremely helpful for
me, in Palo Alto, to be able to go to an L.B. Ball, for example,
Company and say "Hal, I've got twenty of your people that live in
Palo Alto - rather than wholesale asking you for all twenty of
them to attend a hearing or all twenty of them to go in for a
meeting with a local city councilman, before the hearing is sched-
uled, can you give me one or two of your key people, because, this
guy we know happens to live in that particular part of the district
which happens to be represented by that particular city councilman
who happens to be the one who is ram-rodding the ordinance or the
one guy who is supporting our side of the ordinance or whatever it
may be. Follow?

JS: Sure.

AK: But we can't do that, at this point, because all I've got is,
at this stage, in Northern California, I've got a list of about

1500 distributor and vendor people that are north of the Tehachapi
Mountains.

JB: What's the problem in doing it?

AK: The problem in doing it, really is more what the computer in
D.C. can do, rather then a problem in physically being able to do
it. I can't set up a separate system in the state of California
_.that would not be applicable to the other 49 states. Because the
computer has to have a standard system in order to ultimately im-
plement same programs for other states. If I look at my Montana
list, for example, or even my states of Oregon and Washington where
I've got 400 or 500 enrollees in each state, those numbers have all
been enrolled by either myself or John McCulley, our state director.
When you go through the enrollment process, you go out to the var-
ious warehouse companies or warehouses or vending companies or what-
ever. You pretty well have an idea of which people came from which
company. But once you get past 300 or 400 or 500 the numbers become
so overwhelming that you just can't remember and identify where
those people came from. If we ever get any turnover in our state
directors and we have a new state director come in and inherit an
enroliment list, even a list of 200, he's not going to know where

they came from. Because he or she won't have been involved in en-
rolling them.

RS: So what has to be done to get them to change this procedure?
AK: I really don't want to change anything. What I want is to go
back to Cannell and Yenowine with, take the distributor breakdown
for example on that SEC code...

RS: Yea.

TNWL 0053835