Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Two

AK: So, I had-a long conversation with Dan and he has given me
his tentative proxy, assuming that I don't do anything other than
what all four of us talked about last week.

RS: Um huh.

AK: O.K. Let me get back to our premis and my basic problem. I
think that what I'm seeing in my problem may well be applicable to
future problems that you guys might have.

JB: Can't hear ya.
AK: Can't hear me?
JB: No.

AK: That any better?
JB: Yes.

AK: O.K. I think the problems that I'm seeing with TAN enroll-
ment records, you guys may start seeing in the very near future,
which is why I suggested to Mike that I'm going to come up with
some suggestions and see if I can't get you people to approve it
also. The basic premis is: the TAN enorllment lists that we are

“getting are very good, a) if you want a nice large Christmas card
“mailing list and nothing else, and, b) if you have a state director
Or an area manager who has done enrolling of the people whose names
are on those lists and are therefore familiar with who those names
are and what they represent. In other words, what distributing co-
pany, what vendor company, what retailer, etc. But, if you get to
the position like we are in California, where you have got a very,
very large number of names and addresses and/or if you get into a
position where someone is using the list that isn't familiar with
how those names got on to the list, then there is very little infor-
mation on the list right now to identify those people - other than
for major company people. Are you with me to this point?

RS: Um huh.

AK: O.K. Major companies, obviously, are tobacco companies. Ob-
viously we have a "break-down" there, by Lorillard, Philip Morris,
RJR, etc. But once you get into the "sub-categories" or the other
categories rather, of tobacco family people: distributors, vendors,
and retailers, there is no identification on the list other than
strictly their SEC code which says DDI for distributor or RRD for
retailer or something of that sort. My suggestions to Bill Cannell
are that we will need some sub-break-down of those categories in
the near future, just as we now have a sub-break-down of tobacco
company names. With me?

JB: Yea.
“ TNWL 0053833