Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Seven

AK: Well, yes. But when you're dealing with 6,000 of them I'm
going to need two more secretaries in that office just to go
through the transfer sheets. 0.K? Now, I can go and get a
separate print-out - a special print-out - that shows all CCS list
information, and all of the original information when they first
came in on the transfer sheets. But, because of this particular
time of the month, this being the 26th, they are cutting their
end of November lists right now. So that we, by the first week
of December {their goal is the 3rd of December) will be getting
a November TAN enrollee print-out. Now, once they're through
with that, they then are going into a preparation for another
coordinator's meeting, which is on the 13th of December. And
they're starting to cut other lists for the company people that
show where our enrollees are, that show Project ENTER enrollees,
as well as our current enrollees, as well as stuff they need for
the corporate coordinators meeting. The end result of my tale
of woe, is that I can't get a special print-out out of the compu-
tor until at least the 15th of December. By that time, I'm into
a ten-day turn-around for mailing those things, if I want to get
them out by the end of the year. So the horror story becomes, if
you have got a political problem, rather then just Action/Alert
Kits; if you've got a political problem and you need a special
print-out you may get lucky and be able to get it within a day or
two or you may end up in a situation like they have right now where
“I can't even dream of getting computer time 'till two weeks from
-now. Follow? By that time you could have a local ordinance pass-
ed. So I'm hoping that these regular lists will just automatically
give us more information.

JB: Yea, but what's the problem with doing this? I mean, why?
I don't see any problem that would...

AK: The only problem is, is that I'm coming up with something
that is going to be unique for California at this stage and Can-
nell just wants to know that whatever we suggest for California
will be something that will be applicable and usable for other
states. So he wanted me to make sure...

JB: But it won't be usable. Well, it will be for one company,
but I don't have any distributors in my area, except Eli Witt
that have more than 50 employees.

AK: Right. That's why I'm saying I don't think that it's going

to impact you guys at this point. But I do think if we go beyond
where we currently are with just enrolling tobacco family people,
and you guys get into some massive volume-type numbers, then I
think you're going to start finding the same problem I do with
lists that are two and three and four thousand names long, and
wondering where the hell they are, and who they are. I've got a
print-out from California now that's two inches thick. You start
trying to identify individuals within that list, it's almost im-
possible. See? That's why I'm saying right now I'm facing a prob-

TNWL 0053838