Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Three

AK: In other words, right now we've got that "S" code that shows
us that it's a selected member company, and then the next two let-
ters represent which individual company it is: PM for Philip Mor-
ris, etc.

JB: Why would you need to pull them out separately?
AK: Pardon?

JB: Why do you need to pull the distributors out separately?
AK: O.K.

JB: I mean by company.

AK: O.K. Let me give you two different scenarios for why we
might. I've got a local ordinance in the town of Palo Alto, in
California. It's part of the San Francisco Bay area and, because
of that, you've got alot of retail company people, you've got alot
of distributors, alot of vendors, all of whom live in all kinds of
small little towns around the town of Palo Alto. Some of them may
be in Palo Alto but not work in the city of Palo Alto - that sort
of thing. When you are looking for bodies to fight a local ordin-
ance, we're looking not only for numbers of people to attend the
-- hearing but obviously people who can have some impact with the city
- councilmen --- people who may know their local legislators or what-
ever it happens to be. If we've got, for example, 10 or 15 diff-
erent people, all listed as distributors, but no break-down on
which major company they work for, if they happen to be with a ma-
jor group to go to to say "hey, could you give us your employee
for a half hour or an hour to go in and have a meeting with a lo-
cal city councilman?" The only way we can do it is to keep a sep-
arate list - separate accounting procedures for every other enrol-
lee, other than member company enrollees, in order to do that.
For example, we've got one distributing company in California where
we've got 1153 TAN enrollees. Alright? Got another guy whose got
113 TAN enrollees; another one has 102 TAN enrollees. All three
big ones, all three of their principals, within the company, are
very heavily politically involved - much more so than our member
company people are politically involved. And by knowing which
company they are with, we may well have a clue as to which would
be the most affective one to go in to lobby a local ordinance
situation. In a vendor situation, for example, we may have one
company that we know off the top of our head, or through our own
experience, has more vending locations in the given community
than another one. But if we can't identify which of their people
live within a given community, we can't identify how to go about
finding that particular vendor or the key vendor who may have more
weight within a given community. Do you follow?

JB: Yea.

TNWL 0053834