Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Eight

AK: lem in California that we may well all be facing ultimately,
down road. Another problem is, if you split a state, which Alver-
son is going to do in Texas, and they're going to do in California,
we end up trying to divide that list of 6, 000 people amongst a
new state director and an old state director. That new guy is going
to come in and that list is going to be absolutely unusable to him
because he's not going to know where those people are, or how they
came in, or what to do with them. All it shows is the same stuff
that you've all got on your lists -- with a general SEC code and
then a redundant primary code after it. In the distributor, vendor
or retailer categories, all it is is a redundant list. It shows
DDI for distributor, for example; DFL for distributor Flordia or
DNY or whatever you guys are using there. DCA, all it shows is that
they're in California - weil hell, if I've got a California address
I know it's a California distributor.

JB: What do you need from us?

AK: I need some kind of agreement that I'm not going to screw you
up by asking for this.

JB: No. That isn't going to screw me up at all.

RS: Not going to screw me up at all.

“AK: Alright.

JB: I wish I had distributors with over 50 employees.

AK: Yea. I wish I had them up in these states too. Our second
problem is, we have always thought that ultimately these lists,
would show us "balls out" political information: congressional dis-
tricts, state senate districts, house of rep. districts or assembly
districts or whatever you call them. And they're not printing
those up on the computer lists, either. Now, according to Canrell,
they can adjust the format for that list, any which way we want.
But it has to have enough space for those kinds of numbers. I'm
suggesting to him that, in addition to a break-down for individual
TAN family categories (distributors, retailers, vendors), that they
also start providing us with congressional district, state senate
district and assembly or state house district numbers. 0.K.? Now,
I talked to Dan -- he's got a couple of problems in Texas and you
mentioned, Ric, that you've got some problems in New York where you
need more than a two-digit identification of your assembly districts.

RS: Right.

AK: So, what I would like to suggest to Cannell is that he come
up with a nine digit code that would give us those three district
numbers, And that would give us a further political break-down
of where these people are. For example: 001 would represent the
first congressional district, or if you happen to have 45 congres-
sional districts like in California 045 would be the 45th congres-

sional district. O.k.? TNWL 0053839