Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Six

AK: Exactly.
RS: O.K. What is your recommendation on the system?

AK: My recommendation is that you guys give me the opportunity
to do this, and I don't think it's going to impact on you at this
point.

RS: But it could be helpful down the road?

AK: I think, down the road, it is going to be extremely helpful.
Either in the event that you have turn-over in your state direc-
tors, or in the event that we break out beyond the TAN family and
we start to get in to grocers and other retailers and associated
organizations, where we have a great volume of enrollees - more
than what we now have - and you guys start getting into the kinds
of numbers that I've got now in California.

I've got 6600 names on a list in Calif-
ornia. You know, that’s just damn near overwhelming? You can't
even use the list. You follow? The only way that I could use
that list, specifically, right now is to go back to Cannell and
ask for a separate, special print-out that shows all the histor-
ical information that was originally programed into the very first
. list when the TAN cards first started going in. That stuff is
- sotred in the computers, has all of the legislative district num-
‘bers and names, and whatever, but it doesn't come up on the cur-

rent list, because they're printing current lists to fit standard
information all over the country. And, if I go back for a separate
print-out I may get lucky - they may not be doing anything with
the computer, and IJ may get it in a day or two. However, now, I'm
trying to get rid of all my Action/Alert Kits in California - she's
got four thousand of them sitting in her office. And because of
the Californians for Common Sense list, which is that old Prop. 5
thing from 1978, we are concerned that there may be alot of people
on the CCS list which was converted into TAN enrollees that may
well be Lung Association people, may well be the Prop. 5 proponents.
But we can't identify them at this point because of generalized- type
codes that they're using on the current lists. Kelly's concern is
that if we just do a mass mailing ot all these 6,000 peopl@or
4,000 people that are non-company people, that we may be sending
some fo our printed materials to people that really shouldn't be
getting them. Follow?

JB: Um huh.

AK: I have no way of knowing who those people are and without a
better list I can't even start to send those Action/Alert Kits.

JB: You don't have transfer sheets?

TNWL 0053837