Conference Call
November 26, 1979

AK: out the dastrict numbers, and if it's necessary, use a sec-
ond line, whether it be under the zip code, whether it be way over
underneath SEC codes, or whether it be under the TAN I.D. number ~-
I don't really care. I just want to see it somewhere. It could
be down under the city name - in the city column, which may be an
easier way to read it, because that way you'd have letters desig-
nating the city, like Billings, Montana, and then a series of num-
bers down under there. And the numbers and the letters are not
going to get confusing as if they print a second line of numbers
under the TAN I.D. number or under the zip code number -- maybe
that would be a little difficult to read. But if they've got the
second line available, then let's use it, and let's give us those
legislative district numbers. That's what I'm asking Cannell for,
and he can tell us mechanically how to do it - I don't care where
they put it.

RS: Well, Alex, I think it's a good idea. How are you going to
propose it? Are you just going to send a memo saying we've all
agreed to it?

AK: Well, that's what Cannell suggested, and my whole intent with
this whole call, and discussion with Mike last week, was that if
I'm not going to do anything that messes you guys up, then [711 go
ahead and take the monkey on my back and suggest to him these two
_ changes, We want to have the district numbers and we want to have
a break-down, and we've all discussed it, and at least at this stage,
it's not going to screw anybody up. The suggestions for the nine
digit code is 4 reflection of the fact that some states have more
district numbers than what I'm familiar with out here. So instead
of going for six digits, we need nine digits - that sort of thing.
So, that at least, it shows that we've all discussed it. Now, be-
yond that, the whole intent is just to get something there on paper,
in time for our meeting next week. Because, at this stage, Cannell
was going to take an hour, I think on Wednesday or Thursday - what-
ever it was, of next week and just talk in general about the compu-
ter lists. If we all start talking about "hey, we've got this prob-
lem and we've got that problem" then it's going to turn into one
big massive, confusing conversation, and we're going to spend sixty
Minutes not resolving anything. So, if I've got something in there,
that he can start dealing with, then at least it gives us a basis
on which to start a discussion.

RS: Fine.

AK: That alright with you?

JB: Sure.

AK: Any further comment, objections?

JB: No.

TNWL 0053841