Conference Call
November 26, 1979
Page Five

AK: I want to-be able to say, rather then "DDI" for every distri-
butor, give us the flexibility for me to come in and say "Bill,
this particular enrollee on the SEC code ought to be listed as DLB",
for example, meaning in my language "D" for distributor and "LB"
representing L.B. Ball Company or DRW "'D" for distributor "RW" for
Royal Wholewale. All right?

JB: In other words, they're not going to use the "SEC" code any-
more?

AK: Pardon? I beg your pardon?

JB: There is a memo dated the 9th from Cannell. On the second or
third page it says, "the SEC code is for internal use and will not
appear on future printouts."

AK: Yea. I'm sitting here staring at that too and brought that
up with Cannell, and he suggested that was what their original de-
cision was and they're now beginning to think that they're going
to have run it in every printout. The reason for that is if we
don't have it, then we are going to lose information on the regular
printouts that we now have. We won't even know what company people
are enrollees or what companies our enrollees are with. In other
words, if they don't use the SPM, (I'm looking at a Montana list

. right now and I just happened to see a PM member), if they don't
use that SEC code and all they give me is a name and address then
- I'm not even going to know that they are a company person, if they

don't use that SEC code.

RS: Alright. Now, what has to be done?

AK: All I need to do is go back to Cannell and say, "In the event
other states get so many enrollees that they want the same kind of
break-downs that I need now in California, can we establish a sys-
tem by which they can do it, ultimately? And that would be the
kind of thing, where if I'm looking at a list of TAN enrollees, and
I've got six major wholesalers in the state of California who have
more than 50 numbers - 50 TAN enrollees each, come up with an ar-
bitrary decision that says any company that I've got that's over
$0 enrollees may I establish a sub-SEC code that gives me a clue
as to what company they're with. Any distributor that has fewer
than 50 enrollees, the hell with it. We'll do the same thing as
we do on the companies and we'll list them as "other," so it would
come out as a DOT, for example, as "distributor other." That would,
instead of having to have a separate code for every little rinky-
dink wholesaler in the state of California, that may have 10 or 15
employees, I could lump those into an "other" category. But the
major ones I would be able to break, just as we now do the major
company people.

RS: 0.K., Alex, Bill Cannell's comment to you is that we can do
it, as long as everybody in the field agrees on the system that

we use,
‘ TNWL 0053836