Burley Modifier RJR 5/A is in an advanced stage of testing (see F-47
replacement below). We requested and received a 90 day extension from Firmenich
in order to complete our tests. RJR's option for exclusivity on this flavor
now expires May 9th.

Burley Essential Oil Subfractions

Firmenich has submitted 6 subfractions from the high boiling fraction B4
(isolated from the Burley Tobacco Essential Oil) for our smoking evaluations and
ratings. Additional isolation work on subfraction B4 will depend somewhat on
RJR's comments. We expect to provide this data to Firmenich in mid-April.

Non-Burley Tobacco Flavor Modifiers

Two non-Burley Flavor Modifiers, developed by Firmenich from "fallout" of
the Burley isolation project, were submitted for evaluation in early March.
Evaluation indicates that Modifier 302.467 deserves further testing as a cigar
flavor enhancer and that Modifier 302.466 is of no interest. We are accordingly
rejecting 302.466 immediately. RJR has option for exclusivity on such non-burley
modifiers for use in the U.S.

Rejected Flavor Modifiers

Firmenich has officially notified RJR (on 3/13/73) that fourteen Flavor
Modifiers rejected by RJR will be submitted to third parties for evaluation.
In event of sale Firmenich will pay Reynolds a 5% royalty on sales.

‘

F-47 Replacement

Company-wide pack tests (Winston 85 and Camel 70) comparing Modifier RJR
5/A vs. F-47 indicated N.S.D., but for Camel 70 numerically trended for 5/A.

Additional tests employing 5/A alone and in combination with F-47 performed
well on booth panels. Company-wide pack tests (Camel 70 and Winston 85) are
in progress to determine the optimum flavor system. A recommendation will be
made on this subject about April lst.

PROJECT NO. 2362 - FLUE-CURED FLAVOR RECONSTITUTION

A plan for the synthetic reconstitution of the flue-cured flavor extract
from C-13 effluent currently under analysis in Research was finalized, personnel
assigned, and work was initiated February lst. Research has provided a preliminary
qualitative list of the isolated components of subfaction No. 5 (which comprises
60% by weight of the total extract) as well as a list of total materials identified
in program to date (275). Research has refractionated the C-13 effluent extract
to obtain larger quantities of seven subfractions and provided these to Tobacco
Development for smoking evaluation and ratings. Of the chemicals in Subfraction
‘No. 5, eight materials will not be employed in the reconstitution (for known
stability reasons or otherwise alleged detrimental. effects); of the remaining
materials, Tobacco Development has 90% on hand and has completed purity checks.
The remaining chemicals are either on order commercially or scheduled for synthesis
in Research. Quantitative data from Research has been delayed due to an equipment
breakdown, but data should be available to start the initial subfraction reconsti-

666L nnhos