March 26, 1973

Mr. R. H. Cundiff

Quarterly Report

Tobacco Flavors Development Section

PROJECT NO. 2354 - CHEWING TOBACCO

Saccharin Replacement

Factory tests designed to evaluate replacements for saccharin have been
completed and a report issued. Test results indicate that increasing licorice
would be the most practical means of maintaining sweetness in chewing tobaccos,
from both quality and cost standpoints, should saccharin be banned. FDA has
not yet banned the use of saccharin in foods, but has reported finding bladder
tumors in some of the animals used in their feeding studies.

Licorice from Chemicals and Phosphates, Ltd. a

Tests designed to qualify a higher percentage of C&P licorice on Days Work ,
and to re-qualify it for other plug brands have been completed and a report
issued. Test results indicated that products made with C&P licorice were equal
to or better than controls. Manufacturing approved the recommendation that the
Plug Division be allowed to use C&P licorice for up to two-thirds of the licorice
requirements for each plug brand.

Rishmac Licorice

Tests designed to evaluate and qualify spray dried licorice produced in Iran
by MacAndrews & Forbes on plug tobacco have been completed and a report issued.
Test results indicated that this licorice would be suitable for up to fifty per-
cent of the licorice requirements for chewing tobaccos. Usage of Rishmac licorice
at this percentage was recommended in the report and Manufacturing accepted the
recommendation.

PROJECT NO. 2356 - FIRMENICH/RJR BURLEY PROGRAM

Burley Flavor Modifiers

Preliminary evaluation of Burley Flavor Modifiers (Series 17, 18, and 19)
submitted to RJR in October, 1972 was completed in January and a report submitted
to Firmenich, Two flavors (RJR 17C and 19B) were accepted for commercial evaluation
and Series 18 was rejected. The date for acceptance or rejection of 17C and/or
.19B is January 16, 1974, Firmenich has accordingly provided us with a list of 27
compounds present in the Burley Tobacco Essential Oil which are in 17C and 19B.
Our top dressing tests to date indicate that 17C is the best of these two flavors,
An additional evaluation report was submitted to Firmenich in March.

866L thos