tution sometime in April. Meanwhile, Tobacco Development is obtaining, cataloging,
‘and checking purities of chemicals to be used in later subfraction reconstitutions,

PROJECT NO. 2373 - APPLE SMOKING TOBACCO

 

Formula modifications for making F-57 like TF-835 have been supplied to
Manufacturing. Tests indicated that TF-835 improved pack and smoke aroma and
that the product would have longer shelf-life.

PROJECT NO. 2820 - CURRENT BRANDS IMPROVEMENT

Flavor Evaluation of G-13 Effluents

CF-13 and KF-13 water effluents (alone and in 1:1 admixture) used as make-
up water for F-13 and F-53 for Winston 85 and Camel 70 tests in order to evalu-
ate partial recovery of lost flavor have been booth paneled. Winston 85 tests
indicated no difference for any of the effluents compared to control. However,
on Camel 70 there was a numerical preference for both KF~13 and CF-13 effluents
and a significant preference for the 1:1 effluent admixture over the control.
This last test was also significantly preferred by the Tobacco Development
expert panel. Additional tests with the mixed CK-13 effluent from production,
after the blend change, will be scheduled.

Basic Top Dressing Improvements ("'Sweeter" Winston)

Three promising top dressing candidates for basic tobacco flavor improvement
have been selected on basis of booth panel results (on Winston 85) and Company-
wide panel tests requested. Additional. tests are in progress to evaluate recently
developed flue-cured and burley flavors, The most promising flavors developed
will also be scheduled for test in Salem and Camel.

Flavor for C-13

The promising flue-cured flavor developed in late 1972 was reformulated to
overcome stability problems observed on accelerated aging. The modified formula
has performed very well in aging tests to date on C-13, A test on Winston 85
is scheduled,

B-9 as B-3 Replacement

Internal tests indicated that B-9 could be used as a replacement for 50% of the

B-3 used in cutting casing for cigarettes without detriment to product quality. A
summary report was issued recommending factory testing. However, it was decided to
shelve this development in that the economics were not attractive enough to justify
making a change in successful products at this time.

0002 fhhds