Naphtali Savion, Phd.

tN

13

wa

20

Abstracts...continuec

Savior.
and phenotypic expression of cultured bovine
on Functional Correlates of Hormones
Georgia, October 13-15, 1980.

Gospodarowicz, D., and

    

the proliferation
rhosa cells. Yorkshop
ocuetion, Augusta,

     

Savion, N., J.D. Isaacs, 3. Gossodara
nalization and degradation of thrembin
binding sites in bovine corneal endot

Cor Clinical Research. Clin. Res., 2

Suuman.  fatar-
vulation of thrombin
american Federation

   
 

 

 

Savion, N., and D. Gospodarowicz. The control of proliferation and
differentiation of endothelial cells. Ninth Cold Spring Harbor
Conference on Cell Proliferation: Growth or Cells in Hormonally Defined
Media. Cold Spring Harbor, New York, Sepe.. t=", 1931,

    

 

Savion, N. L. Vlodavsky, and %. Fuks. 7 1 phocytes and macrophages
interaction with vascular endothelial cells: accacnment, invasion

and subsequent degradation of the subendotheiisl extracellular matrix.
Bat-Sheva Seminar on Tumor Metastasis: Control Mechanisms, Llsrael,

May 8-13, 1933,

 

 

savion, N., and N. Farzame. Binding uptake and Jenradation of anti-
sin Lil+protease complexes by corneal cudothelial cells. The
first joint meeting of the Israeli Societies iar Life sciences, isracl,

   

   

Qutober 4-6, 1983.

  

Omri, G., I. feitoun, N. Savion, and fi. Mei outgrowth of
ORG cells can be stimulated in serum-free media in the absence of YGF,
The first joint meeting of the Israeli Soetecies for “ile Sciances,

Israel, October 4~6, 1983.

   

Savion, N., and N. Farzame. Binding and metabelisu or antithrombin LIL:
protease complexes by various cells in culture. leva workshop

on the role vf platelets in Hemostasis and Tarembosis, israel, March
25-30, 1984.

    

Ry
23a)

 

 

Savion, N., and N. Farzane. Binding and Metabolism of antithrombin
Lil+protease complexes by fibroblasts and endothelial cells in culture.
loth Meeting of the Federation of European Biochemical Societies,
Moscow USSR, June 25-30, 1984,

 

     

 

Meiri, H., Omri, [. Zaitoun, G.M. Cershoni, and N. Savion.

Oevelopment of the voltage dependent sodium channel in cultured rat
dorsal root ganglion cells~immunofluorescence studies. 4th Annual
Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, Anaheim, Oct. 10-15, 1984.