Naphtali Savion, Ph.D.

24

nN
ua

Abstracts...continued

Omri, G., I. Zeitoun, N. Savion, and H. Weird. comental
factors influencing the formation of the voltage dependent
sodium channel in cultured outsrowing Dorsal Root ton (DRG)
cells. The Israeli Physiological and ?hamnacolozizal Sociery,
Semi-Annual Conference, Haifa, May 15, 1934.

 

   

  

 

Meiri, H., G. Omri, I. Zeitoun, and XN. Savion. rvyironmental
factors that influence the differentiation and the development
of volrage dependent sodium channel in cultured Borgal Root Ganglion
(DRG) cells of new born rats. International Symposium on Processes

cf Recovery from Neural Trauma. Rechovot, June 10-15, 1984.

   

 

Neiri, H., G, Omri, £. Zeitoun, and Savion, Appearance of

voltage dependent sodium channels in cultured rat dorsal reet
ganglion cells as revealed by immunotluoresecace microscopy.

The 1984 Regional Meeting of the International Union of Physiological
Sciences, Jerusalem, August 26-31, 1934,

 

 

Savion, N. stabolism of Antithrombin Ill-srocease complexes by
cultured celis. The Israel Society of Hematolosy and Blood ansfusion
Convention, Herzlia, Feb. 12, 1985.

 

  

 

    

Pil.Protease compl

 

by various cells in culture,

avion, N., Metabolism cf Antithron
t
2C1),

Thrombos. Hae

    

Savion, N., XN. Naveh-Floman. Trypsin interaction with vascular endothelial
celis: binding, internalization and ineuccion of prostacyclin production.
Satellite Symposium of the Xth Consress of ISTH on; Cellular events
mediated by thrombin and related protein es, San Diego, California,

USA, July 17, 1985,

 

  
  

Shoham, J., I. Fshel, 8. Savion. Morpholow and function of th
endothelial-like cells grown on extracellular matrix in cefined mediun.
2énd International Meeting of the Reticuloendothelial Society, Ithaca,
New York, U.S.A., August 3-8, 1985,

   

Savion, 8. Metabolism of antithrombin IiT‘protease complexes by various

cells in culture. Joint meeting of the Intemational Committee on thrombosis
and Haemostasis, 32nd Annual Meeting and the Mediterranean Leapure Acainst
Thromboembolic Diseases, 9th Cougress, Jerusalem, Israel, 1-4 June, 1986,