Naphtali Savion, Ph.D.

he

ha

os

Savion, N. and 2. Selinger. Induction of
slices by calcium acting through the divale:
{srael J. Med. Sci. Ll, 1195 (197

  

 

Savion, N. and Z. Selinger. inhibition of
at high concentration of secretagogues. israel J.

1374 (1976).

 

nereatte

      

 
 

Savion, N. and 2%. Selinger. Secretas
depressant factor in rat pancreatic slices

e-induced prauuet
J. Physiol.

 

   

Gospodarowicz, D., 1. Vlodavsky, N. Savion, d J.-P. Tauber. The
control of mammalian cell proliferation and differentiation in vitro
by fibroblast growth factor (FGF). Svmposium on Peptides: Integrators
of cell and tissue functions, Society of General Physiologists, Woods
Hole, Sept., 1979.

 

 

  

Gospodarowicz, D., N. Savion, and I. Vlodavsxy. The control of the
proliferation of granulosa cells by epidermal and fibroblast growth
factors. EMBO Workshop on Specific Crowth Factors, Rome, October 9-11, 1979.

 

 

Isaacs, J.D., 8. Savion, J.W. F
binds to a specific site on end
Kematology. Bload 54 (Suppl. X

Fenton IL, and M.A. Shuman. Thrombin
thelial cells. American Society of
3 7.

 

  

isaacs, J.B., Savion, P. Halver nton, < MOA. Shuman,
Further characterization of the thrombin receptor on endothelial cells

and effects of cell proliferation on recoptor number. American Federation
for Clinical Research, 1980.

     
 

 

Tseng, $.C.G., N. Savion, R. Stern, and 2. Gospodarowiez. Tibroblast
growth factor maintains the phenotypic expression of collagen synthesis
in cultured bovine vascular endothelial cells. CLA Symposia:
Control of Cellular Development and Division, Narch 2-8, 1980.

  

Savion, N., I. Vlodavsky, and B. Cospodarowicz., ‘lechanisa of action
ot epidermal growth factor in bovine granulosa ce ECN-UCLA Symposia:
Control of Cellular Bevelopment and Division, Mareb 2-8, 1980,

 
    

   

Tseng, $.0.C., N. Savion, ND. Gospodarowicz, and R. Stern, Characterization

of the cellegen synthesized by bovine corneal aaethelial cells in
culture. Western Connective Tissue So sedety eting, May, }

a

 

eng, S.C.G., N. Savion, D. Cospodarowicz, and R. Stern. Fibroblast
growth factor maintains the phenotypic expression of collagen synthesis
in cultured bovine vascular endothelial cei
Tissue Society Meeting, May, 1980.

  

 

S. Wastern Connective