March 12, 1979

Re: Long Range Plan: 1980-1984

Attached its your copy of the Planning Guide. Please Study it carefully.
I will be available at your request for a 30-minute follow-up review
{and answer question) meeting with you during the March 14-16 period.

Please note on the attached the excerpt section on the Development of the

External Forecast. Specifically, this involves the procedures and notes
the following areas where we need your Department's inputs.

a— as . |
e Economic effects of cigarette pricing: My memo of February 22 to Coit S

you is a starting basis for discussion of this. What we need is a
set of retail pricing assumptions and their estimated impact on
industry volume. Jesse Siff of Siff, Oakley & Marks, an outside
consulting economist, is available to work with us, if we desire.

e Industry unit volume and RJR volume and share: Most critical and
top priority is to update since it indicates how much replanning
against the market share issue is necessary.

we also need to determine if there is a way to make the forecast of
greater operational value to our Manufacturing and Leaf/Blend Develop-
ment Departments.

Manufacturing says what we say we will need and what we actually need
end up to be quite differently. Leaf says because of the 18-24 month
lead time required for leaf buying and leaf processing and storage
(additional storage or expanded processing), a more accurate forecast
is needed.

e Consumer Environment: Consumer values and lifestyles, cigarette categories,
demographics and geographics, competition and consumer attitudes toward
smoking. We need to reassess the marketing implications of current and
changing trends in these areas.

A thorough analysis of competitive strengths and weaknesses is most
important since it may indicate contingent or alternative ways to gain
share of market. The emphasis should be on American, B&W and ness in|
For example, what are the geographic pockets of Liggett's business in| °‘
terms of volume. Can we target more aggressive counter display and
vending efforts in these areas to get their business?

ZLL9 6810S