y

-

 

R,J, REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY ee
L - Le

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM SENSORY EVALUATION DIVISION !
Cit JURY _
SUBJECT: Summary of Human Study DATE: Aictober:9% L987 ft | |
Extended Use Results Nig a my ih {eg h | |
DD ad f ! |

TO: John Reynolds FROM: Margaret i®.” Savoca

Summary

The initial mean value for acceptance using a 9-point hedonic scale

was 5.67 (6= like slightly). By the end of two weeks this mean score

had dropped to 5.16 (5= neither like nor dislike). The attribute

ratings identified problems with strength, odor and performance that

could be correlated to decline in acceptance. Some subjects did comment on
their impression that they felt better during the period they were

smoking the product. , . .

Background

There were three groups of Human Study subjects who completed periodic
evaluations of their perceptions of the product during the periods
when they were smoking the test product . The evaluations included
the measurement of Overall Acceptance and 16 attributes related to
performance, usage, flavor, strength, and odor (ballot is attached).
The subjects also provided written comments. The 31 subjects who ‘
evaluated the test product for two weeks, completed three evaluations
(Groups S1 and $2). The twelve subjects who evaluated the product for
39 days, completed five evaluations(S3 Group). The data were analyzed
for all subjects of Groups Si, S2 and S3 for three intervals. The
subjects in Group S3 who provided five evaluations were also analyzed
separately. The results of the first two intervals have been reported
previously.

Results of Three Intervals for All Subjects

Test conditions varied for the three groups of subjects. The Si and S2
Groups were both on the diet but smoked the product during different
two week periods. Males and females were represented in both groups.
The $3 Group was not on the diet and smoked the product for 39 days.
The S3 Group was comprised of males only. The results were analyzed
for group and interval effects. Group effects were not a major source
of information.

The three interval] results indicate that 12 of the 16 attributes and
Overall Acceptance were significantly different across time. The
changes exhibited by these attributes were viewed in one of: two ways.
First, as a movement in the score that would represent a change in

w
oO
oa
nv
oa
uw
w
oa
~]