either a positive or negative direction; such as a decrease or
increase in Overall] Acceptance relative to the baseline. Eight
significant attributes plus overall acceptance were in this category.

These were: Ease of Lighting, Awareness of Odor, Pleasantness of
Odor, Consistency, Temperature of the Rod, Draw,
Length of Smoking, Ease of Use, and Overall
Acceptance. .

For these attributes,the change in direction was always negative. For
example, Overall Acceptance declined, lighting was perceived as more
difficult, the odor became more noticeable and less pleasant, and the
product was thought to be less consistent over time. The decline in
acceptance is illustrated by GRAPH I. An example of a change in an
attribute is shown GRAPH II. The product became harder to use over
time.

Second, for several attributes the mid-point on the scale was defined
as the point of moderate intensity because the optimum point was
unknown at this point. Values were calculated as a change from this
mid-point. Four significant attributes were analyzed in this manner..

These were: Flavor Intensity, Strength, Number of Cigarettes and
Frequency of Puffs.

These attributes which measured a change relative to the mid-point
indicated that greater deviation from the mid-point occurred over
time. That is Strength and Flavor Intensity were further away froma
moderate level by the third interval as compared to the first or
baseline.

After the first interval the ratings for the majority of the
attributes and Overall Acceptance changed significantly and did not
show a aifference between the second and the third intervals.

Results of the $3 Group for Five Intervals

The data set for the S3 group was also analyzed separately for five
intervals (39 days). Since there only twelve subjects in this group
meny differences would not be expected to be found. There were three
attributes that demonstrated significant differences over the five
intervals.

These were: Noticing The Temperature of the Rod, Length of
Smoking and Ease of Use.

The temperature of the rod became more noticeable over time and the
length of smoking became shorter after the baseline evaluation. Ease
of use became more difficult after the baseline evaluation but the
mean rating returned to the baseline value at the last interval. This
may suggest the subjects learned to adapt to the unique product
characteristics by then. However, the other attributes and Overall
Acceptance did not behave in this manner. The other thirteen
attributes and Overall Aceptance did not change over time.

g9Se 9290S