Ree ere’

10

cis Cs

 

 

  

sol

FicuRE 4 Cs* blocking curves Single-channel currents were measured <n soluuions of symmetrical K*, 300 mM, with the indicated
concentration of Cs* added to one side. (4) Cs* added to cis side. (B) Cs* added vo trans side. Dashed J-V curves were obtained without added
Cs* (for clarity, data points are omitted). Solid curves are‘drawn as in Fig. 2

previously, states that Cs* binds to but cannot traverse the
channel, we can now simply say that Cs' binds and can
permeate, albeit with low conductance. This picture of
low-conductance permeant-ion blocking has been docu-
mented with conducting ions id Na* channels (Hille,
19758), in squid axon K* channels (French and Wells,
1977), in the acetytcholine-activated channel of end plate
(Lewis, 1979; Adams et al., 1981), and in Ca*~ channels
(Hess and Tsien, 1984). According to this view, as Cs* is
added to solutions containing symmetrical K*, the oceu-
pancy of the channel by Cs* increases, and the total
current becomes increasingly dominated by the low-
conductance Cs* ion at the expense of the high-conduc-
tance K* ion.

We now approach this idea quantitatively. In a theory
considering Cs* as nonconducting, the block of K7 cur-
rents can be understcad in a simple thermodynamic frame-
work (Woodhull, 1973; Coronado and Miller, 1979). But
the small conceptual change of allowing Cs* to conduct
slowly requires a completely different, nonequilibrium
treatment of the kinetics of permeation by this ion. We
therefore consider a free energy profile for Cs” perme-
ation, much as has been previously developed for K*
(Coronado et al., 1980). As with K? , we begin with several
assumptions: (a) that this channel can be occupied by at
most one ion at a time, and (4) that the permeation
pathway consists of at least three barriers in series. The
evidence supporting both of these assumptions is strong, as
has been discussed (Coronado et al, 1980; Miller, 1982).
Using these two assumptions, we can allow the data
presented here to lead us towards some qualitative features
of the free energy profile for Cs*, which we will then refine
quantitatively to arrive at the final workable conduction
model illustrated in Fig. $.

The first pertinent facts are apparerit from the J-V curve
in symmetrical Cs* (Fig. 2). We see that these curves are

480

utterly independent of Cs* concentration in the range
20-699 mM. We conclude that the channel is saturated
with Cs* at all these concentrations, and that therefore the §
dissociation constant of Cs* for the channel (at zera
veltage) is <3 mM. Since the dissociation constant is any
expression of the energy wells only (Léuger, 1973; Hille,
we can say that the well depth of the Cs! binding
~5.3 RT or lower. We note further that the
ance for Cs”, which is the maximum, or saturation
level, conductance for this ion, is 10-20-fold lower than for
K*. This tells us that the rate-limiting barrier to Cs* exit
from the channel is ~3 RT larger than that for K*
(Coronado et al., 1980). An additional consideration is that §

  
  
  

 

 

 

cal

FIGURE 4 Three-barrier free energy profiles for K* and Cs*. The I-¥
curves were it by eye using parameters for a three-barrier, two-sile
Single-ion conduction model, as previously described for this channel
(Coranado et al., 1980). Barriers were positioned symmetrically, with
wells constrained at electrical distances of 0.38 and 0.62, Parameters are
given in Table 1.

BIOPHYSICAL JOURNAL. VOLUME 48 . 1985