ceo

 

FiGure 6 Pore structure and a four-barrier raodel. A scheme is dr:
1982; Miller et al, 1984) on the basis of conduction and blocking studies. A
is proposed to drop, is shown in register with free energy profiles for K * (sol)

awn of cag

 

aysical model previously derived for this channel (Miller,
nent of the \unnel region, along which the applied voltage
nd Cs* (dashed), These profiles were derived by fitting the /-¥

   
 

data to the model, with parameters given in Table 1, The unhydrated Cs* ion shown in the scheme is drawn ta scale.

profiles derived above for the conducting ions are not
consistent with this structure. The main problem concerns
the symmetry of the channel. On one hand, the channel's
diffusion pathway is clearly asymmetric in structure; both
Cs* and organic cations (Coronado and Miller, 1982)
block ata specific binding site at an electrical distance of
~0.4, But on the other hand, the free energy profile derived
for K* is highly symmetric, with three energy barriers
symmetrically positioned along the pore. It makes sense
that the blocking site for organic cations and Cs* should be

located near the constricted region of the channel, the .

selectivity filter. But why should there:be a second barrier
for K* movement in the middle of the wider tunnel region?
Furthermore, why should a blocker’s binding site be
located near the selectivity filter, which should be an
energy peak in the channel (Armstrong, 1975)?

Of course, without a detaifed structure of this channel
protein, we cannot answer these questions. But we do wish
to propose an alternative ion conduction profile which is
more harmonious with our structural picture of this pore.
This profile, shown in Fig. 6, is highly asymmetric. We
propose, as Hille (19755) has done for the Nat channel,
that the selectivity constriction itself provides both ion
binding sites and a major rate-determining step for trans-
port through the channel, We imagine that a cluster of
polar groups is located at the selectivity filter, and that a
conduction ion can approach this structure from either
side and bind to it before being fully liganded in the center
of the hole. The configuration in which an ion is complexed
with the selectivity filter in front and water behind is
Proposed to represent a binding well in the free energy

482

 

e. There will be two of these, one far approach from
and one fram the right. We further postulate that
ally difficult step for the conducting ion is the actuall
sit through the selectivity filter, i.¢., in moving between
lefiward and rightward binding positions. It is reasonable
to suppose that this step might be energetically unfavor-
able, since additional dehydration of the ion will have to
occur here, concomitant with specific liganding by the!
Groups in the selectivity filter.

Our pore thus contains an active site, with a single
liganding structure in the channel contributing two binding
sites and a transition state. We place these close together,
at electrical distances of 0.34, 0.37, and 0.4, to be consis-
tent with the voltage dependences of both organic and
inerganic blockers. The pore should also contain barriers to
entry, since partial dehydration will occur when the con-
ducting ion enters the 0.8 nm—wide tunnel region; accord-
ingly, we place barriers at electrical distances of 0.05 and j
0.95, respectively. Once an ion enters the tunnel from the
trans side by hopping over the barrier at 0.95 electrical 4
distance, what does it experience? According to our struc-
tural picture, it will diffuse along a relatively wide, feature- §
less region until encountering the constriction. We envision |
this relatively {ree diffusion process as a series of small 4
energy barriers, and for simplicity we model this as a single
low barrier. This is not an entirely unreasonable assump-
tion, given that the distance from the trans-facing tunnel
entry to the selectivity constriction is only 0.6-0.7 nm
(Miller, 1982) .

Does the free energy profile thus developed qualitative-
ly, and shown in Fig. 6, work? With the parameters 4

 

  

BIOPHYSICAL JOURNAL VOLUME 48 1985