PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
120 Park Ave., NYC 10017

 

To: A. Goldfarb/M. Mahan Date: March 26, 1990
From: P. pesener ff) —
Re: Alpine/Cambridge PVB Promotion Concepts

 

This provides a brief description of some recommended Media or Premium
Promotion concepts developed for the Alpine and/or Cambridge brands
(or both).

ALPINE
: Free Bavarian Alpine Mints (Holida

An ROP coupon offers free Bavarian Alpine Mints, sent to you or
your friends for the holidays, with X proofs of purchase.

 

. Free Corduroy Caps
A free Alpine Corduroy Cap is offered either on-carton or via ROP
coupon with X proofs of purchase.

. "Make an Alpine Summer Cooler"
As an overlay to planned carton offer of a 6-pack cooler -- a
"Book of Values" on "cool" store items such as iced tea, ice
cream, frozen drink mixes etc. plus recipes for "An Alpine Cooler
Summer Refresher" nonalcoholic drink.

. Free Alpine Mountain Snowshaker (Holiday)

An ROP offer of a "Free Alpine Snowshaker" when consumers send in
X proofs of purchase (or as a near-pack display offer).

: The Alpine Outdoor Merchandise Discount

A book of coupon values for outdoor clothing and equipment is
offered via high volume Mass Merchant displays. Consumers
receive discount(s) on in-store item(s) with X proofs of purchase
(i.e. boots, ponchos, tents, lanterns, hiking equipment etc.)

Option -- offer could be made via ROP insert and/or Direct Mail.
5
CAMBRIDGE Ses ~
~e ° MAN a

. Cambridge Free "Pizza Party"

Consumers receive an on-carton coupon for a "free large pizza pie
with carton purchase" when they purchase a carton of Cambridge.
Coupon is valid at any pizza retailer, and pizza receipt must
accompany redeemed coupon.

Note: Coupon will require consumers name, address etc. plus a
signature ensuring they are 21 years of age -- which will
automatically enter them into the "Cambridge Pizza Party
Entertainment Center Sweepstakes" -- consumers win a combination

"system": a portable camcorder, VCR, TV Monitor and Stereo (CD)
System.

9ZSETSZP0e