Cautionary Note:

 

As with all qualitative research, this type of consumer feedback provides a
basis for further developing and evaluating hypotheses and should be viewed as
suggestive rather than definitive or projectable.

DISCUSSION OF IN-GOING HYPOTHESES:

TL A NY

o Revised de-nicotinized blends will smoke milder than previously tested

conventional blend products at comparable tar levels.
OOM Leet teo fttir

While the three de-nicotinized blendscigavettes (B, C, H) were comparable
in tar to products looked at previously, they smoked milder than the higher
nicotine, conventional blend products. It is important to note that
although these new products. had 13-1l5mg tar, they burned slower, resulting
in lower tar per puff.

Prototype A, the high nicotine control blend, was shown to the full flavor
smokers. They described the cigarette as being strong and harsh, with too
much tobacco taste, and a burning aftertaste. The lower nicotine blend was
more appealing to these smokers in terms of strength and taste characteris~
tics; however, some respondents still commented on harshness and hot taste.

ry

The FFLT smokers tried the high dilution (H), experimental top dressing (C)
products. Opinions of these two prototypes were mixed, with some smokers
really liking the cigarettes and others not. While these blends were
judged to be improvements versus the higher nicotine products tested
previously, several of the FFLT smokers (the younger group, in particular)
said they still smoked and tasted too much like full flavor cigarettes.
Positive comments included good tobacco flavor and more flavorful. The
major negative mentioned was an unpleasant aftertaste.

o The combined tobacco/cellulose acetate filter (F, G) will smoke milder than
the all-tobacco filter. AO rar TAA Se
C i

The combined filter with CA at the mouth end (G)/did smoke lighter and
milder than the all-tobacco filter products, and/was perceived lighter than
the combined filter with tobacco at the mouth end (F). Although internal
testing indicated no differences in smoking characteristics between the two
combined filter products, the smokers in the study perceived the products
to be quite different. Tobacco at the mouth end connoted perceptions of
more tobacco taste and more strength relative to Product G.

Among FF smokers, Product F was preferred and also perceived to be lighter
than Product A{ the conventional blend with ATF) and Product B(whieh—wes
the same de-nicotinized blend as Product F but with the ATH). Products A
and B were only smoked by FF smokers.

The FFLT groups were split on which combination filter was lighter. The
older group thought Product G (CA at mouth end) was stronger than Product
F, while the younger FFLT group had the opposite perceptions. However,
both FFLT groups were alike in their polarized perceptions of Products C
(experimental top-dressing) and H (high air dilution)--they either liked
the products and favorably compared them with Product F or they hated the
products. — ,

-2-

ut

0600 %090S