o Filter Color . _
In addition to the lighter tobacco filter, we showed smokers a darker 7 ~
colored tobacco filter and asked for comments comparing the two. While the
respondents did not seem to have any major problems with the original
color, many seemed to prefer the darker one. Those who liked the darker
color did so because it looked “more like tobacco,” “less processed,” and
“more natural.” Advantages for the lighter color included comments like
“Just more appealing” and “doesn't look as strong.”

CONCLUSIONS/ IMPLICATIONS:

 

  
 

o These revised, de-nicotinized blends appeared to smoke milder than
previously tested“blends at comparable tar levels. However, since some of
the FFLT smokers mentioned.reduced harshness and strength as areas for
improvement, R&D is remaking products with higher air dilution to lower
tar. If the flavor can be maintained at a lower level of tar (10-12mg),
this cigarette may be more attractive to the FFLT smokers. Additional
qualitative research is planned in mid-September to obtain consumer
feedback on a lower tar product.

o The all-tobacco filter proposition seems to have appeal to both FF and FFLT
smokers. Although “low tar" was not expressed in the FF concept, a number
of these smokers indicated they would like a lower tar cigarette, but not
at the expense of full flavor taste. They were skeptical of a cigarette
being able to offer such a combination, since they felt lower tar ciga-
rettes often promised good taste but did not deliver.

Given the all-tobacco filter is a new technology, its claim of rich, full-
bodied taste and lower tar seems more believable. Full flavor smokers’
reactions to the concept and also the products were encouraging. This
suggests that we may want to consider not only current low tar smokers as
an opportunity, but also current full flavor smokers.

o Using two identical products with the reversed combination filter seemed to
emphasize the impact filter perceptions can have on the overall appeal of
the cigarette. Perceptions of more tobacco taste from the product with
tobacco filter exposed pointed up advantages of the tobacco filter. |

o The revised concept communicated the intended message and set up
appropriate expectations. Findings from these groups as well as results
from recent concept testing point to the importance of the concept in
communicating the new tobacco filter and in setting up appropriate product
expectations. It is therefore recommended that all product testing on this
project include a concept statement up front.

o Response to the darker filter was positive, with many of the smokers
preferring it over the lighter one. Consideration should be given to
exploring a darker filter as a way to possibly enhance product perceptions.

7600 7090S

djm/1.2

-4-