o The proposition will appeal to smokers because of its promise to deliver a

°

more rich tobacco taste. : 2

The key reason mentioned for interest in the tobacco-filtered products was
good tobacco taste. What came as somewhat of a surprise were the percep~
tions and comments conceraing the combination filter with the tobacco
portion visible (F). Three of the four groups, FF smokers and the older
FFLT smokers, seemed to prefer this product over Product G with CA at the
mouth end. Many described it as a good tasting yet mild cigarette. FFLT
smokers were pleasantly surprised that a lower tar cigarette could offer
this much flavor. Product F didn't appear to have as much of a harshness
and aftertaste problem as the other cigarettes.

The full flavor smokers seemed especially interested in a cigarette with
the full-bodied taste of a non-filtered cigarette and the benefit of a
filter that would lower tar. There was some concern, however, that mild-
ness and a tobacco filter were contradictory ideas. While the concept was
appealing to most of the FFLT smokers, they tended to be less interested in
“full flavor taste.” Some of the positives mentioned among these smokers
were rich taste, smooth taste, and less bite than what they were currently
smoking.

After trying the cigarettes, many of the smokers (both FF and FFLT) were
"pleasantly surprised.” “Tt looked and smoked better than I expected." Of
those smokers not liking the product (mostly the younger FFLT smokers), the
complaints were mostly taste-related. "It was blah..-had very little
flavor." “The taste was not rich enough.”

OTHER LEARNING:

Concept

Results from recent quantitative testing indicated the concept did not
clearly communicate that the filter was "made of" tobacco, so the concept
was revised. For FF smokers, references to low tar were removed from the
concept statement.

Before smoking products with the tobacco filter, smokers were shown the
revised all-tobacco filter concept (See attachment) and asked their opin-
idons and product expectations. Many of the FF and FFLT smokers felt it was
a viable concept. While most smokers showed an interest in the idea, they
were skeptical that it could actually be done. Several smokers mentioned
non-filtered cigarettes and questioned whether such a filter would reduce
tar like a regular filter. Some expected loose tobacco to fall into their
mouth.

Overall, the revised concept seemed to communicate the intended message.
Consumers understood it and played back associated benefits. The insertion
of “made of" tobacco appeared to correct previous communication difficulty.
The smokers were aware of the composition of the filter and did not seem
surprised when shown the product.

1600 7090S