~ . PROJECT MX QUALITATIVE RESEARCH : - “Lh 4
(MDD #86-42903)

The purpose of this report is to present findings from recent MX product
qualitative research. . .

BACKGROUND:

Project MX is a tobacco-filtered cigarette developed to appeal to male,
non-menthol smokers. Initial qualitative research on 14mg conventional blend
products was conducted among FF smokers. This research indicated a problem
with. too much impact.

As a result of this learning, R&D developed three reduced nicotine blends and
two variations of the shredded tobacco filter:

o Blends

- Control-Conventional, high nicotine (A)

- Low nicotine (B)

~ Low nicotine with vanillin and chocolate in top dressing (C)
- Low nicotine with increased air dilution (H)

o Filter Variations

~ All-tobacco filter

~ Combination filter: 15mm tobacco/l0mm cellulose acetate
-- Control-Cellulose acetate at mouth end (G)
-- Tobacco filter at mouth end (F)

These prototypes were examined to aid R&D in determining blend, casing and top
dressing direction for future quantitative testing.

METHODOLOGY:

Four focus groups were held on August 4-5, 1986 in Atlanta, Georgia. The all
male groups were split on the basis of age (18-34, 35-49) and flavor grouping
(FF, FFLT). All the respondents smoked 85mm, non-menthol brand styles.

Each group was initially exposed to a cigarette with the combination filter
(G). Since the cellulose acetate portion was at the mouth end, this enabled
us to obtain consumer perceptions of what looked to be a standard product.
Smokers were then shown the tobacco filter concept (see attachment) without
product. Following their comments on the concept itself and their expecta~
tions of the product, they were given a cigarette identical to the first with
the exception that the tobacco portion of the combination filter was at the
mouth end. This was followed by exposure to other prototypes with an all-
tobacco filter. In addition, smokers were able to visually compare two colors
of the all-tobacco filter.

6800 7090S

~ -l-