PROJECT NUMBER: 1740 DATE: November 1, 1983

PROJECT TITLE: Flavor Components of Tobacco and Filler

PROJECT LEADER: C. S. Kroustalis

PERIOD COVERED: September 26 = October 25, 1983

I. TOBACCO AND FILLER

A.

The following compounds were identified in the 8-glucosidase

hydrolyzate of the E-55 glucosidic fraction by Dr. F. Hsu

using GC/MS: 3-methyl-l-butanol, 2-methyl-2-buten-l-ol,
3—hexen-l-ol, benzaldehyde, benzyl alcohol, phenethylalcohol,
2-methy1-5-(2-methyl-5-isopropenyl tetrahydro-2-furyl) furan
(tentative identification), 3-oxo-a-ionol, blumenol C,
4-(3-hydroxybutylidene)-3,5,5-trimethyl-2-cyclohexone (two
isomers), cadineol, and hydroxysolavetivone (two isomers).

Propyl paraben determinations have been made on 45 RL samples
and size. Size samples at timed intervals during a Pilot
Plant run showed no concentration variation over several
hours. RL sheet samples analyzed randomly indicated a small
amount of application cycling in concentration levels.
Standard response in the range of 100 to 2200 ng/yl was
linear. Lower limit of detection under current analytical
practices is 1.20 ng/ul. The RL sheet generated will be made
into cigarettes to determine dust generation from RL as well
as possible transfer of propyl paraben to non-RL blend
components.

We are currently working with Ms. E. T. Oakley in developing
a procedure for estimating oriental tobacco in cigarettes.
The methyl ester of 8-methylvaleric acid is used as the
marker for oriental. Contributions from bright and burley
tobaccos appear to be minimal (<10 ug/g versus 950 ug/g for
oriental).

Preliminary results with synthetic Marlboro blends show good
correlations, but B-methylvaleric acid concentration ranges in
various grades of oriental from different countries need to be
determined.

A procedure is being developed for determining C2-C,. volatile
fatty acids in tobacco and filler. Although we were not
successful with butyl ester derivatives because of dilution
problems, benzyl ester derivatization shows promise. This
procedure involves the reaction of the tetrabutylammonium
salts of the acids with benzyl bromide in acetone.

SGLGLbEGQ?