fate:

ein bed

Lain Ree via oI RIOR MANE ana gat MURS ih

: Nib ibaa 2 on ccenent st orgithagein's sed a: >» ak

 

 

“ G. sey | 7 | - AW

Leriltard

MEMORANDUM

 

TO: Joe Giordano ~
FROM: Laurie Moroz

RE: Definition of Threshold Perception Index

a a ee ee

The Threshold Perception Index is an expression of the probable stopping
power of an outdoor ad. It is a. measurement of the average number of elements
correctly identified by respondents after viewing the ad at the threshold
exposure (which varies from: .2 to 8 seconds), The Index is computed as follows:
Every element. recalled by every respondent is assigned one "point;" in addition,
one point each is given for correct brand name and product identification,

All respondents' points are then accumulated, averaged, and expressed as a
percentage. (Elements of an ad consist of headline words or phrases, as well
as pictorial elements.)

For example, if a respondent, after threshold exposure, claims to have seen
"a pack of True cigarettes and a 5," his answer constitutes five points - one
point each for the pack, the word "True", and the "5", and one point each for
correctly identifying brand and product. If the average number of elements re-
called by respondents for that ad was 4,86, the Threshold Perception Index would
be 486%.

The norm of 400% was developed through: correlation of Communicus' pre-testing
and post-test data. (Post-testing estimates the number: of people who have noticed
an outdoor ad in the marketplace. } ‘An ad which earns a Threshold Percention

Index of 400% or more is likely to perform well in Conmunicus' post-testing,

te. is likely to be above average in attracting attention under actual viewing
conditions. »

It is theoretically possible for an ad to receive no correct brand: identi-
fication, but still have a Threshold Perception Index of 400% or more. This is
unlikely since recognition of the brand name is usually worth two "points" in

‘the Index, However, if such a situation did occur, it would probably mean: that

the ad had excellent stopping power, but that it attracted attention with strong,
creative elements which had little or nothing to do with the brand itself,

It is important to remember that the Threshold Perception Index is merely
Suggestive of actual performance and must always be evaluated within the context
of all findings from the same test,

L. M.
/dim .

R. Ave

’

    

wg Tye ae