wo

74

PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE. ....
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592

 

TO: Marty Barrington DATE: Fe: EET Y i 1999

| i LE
we

FROM: Christine Caputo HD

  

i - a
SUBJECT: Master Settlement Agreement Training FEB - 5 loys bee

MARTIN J. BARRINGTON.
Listed below are questions to be addressed to facilitate the scheduling of the Master Settlement
Agreement training. (Note: there is a total of 410 people, excluding exempt employees who attended the
Marketing session. I have obtained confirmation that this number is for all exempt employees.)

1. Should some or all of the training sessions be scheduled at the Hudson Theater, Millennium
Broadway Hotel?
a. Capacity and cost: holds a maximum of 275 people on the first level and a maximum of 214

th on the first balcony. Cost for a 1/2 day rental is $10,000 plus $50 per head if we want.a continental
by) breakfast and coffee. One session at the Millennium can accommodate all 41 OTe sessions mg) be

iL better, but it may be cost prohibitive.
L

\n lows wm bz Considerations: One or two sessions may not be flexible enough to accommodate schedules.

dak

Also, will the session(s) provide enough opportunity for other attorneys in the department to obtain
experience in providing the training? Should other off-site locations be explored?

In-house training only. . "

Qo mop up
a. Capacity: the 5th floor presentation réom holds a maximum of 100 people —-4 (pessibly-5}-
sessions will be necessary.

b. Julie and Joe can alternate as experienced trainers with you, Paula, Jacquie and Anthony.
3. Appointment of business people to help coordinate the invitations.
a. Each SVP will need to designate someone in their group to be responsible for:
i. tracking how the invitations are being sent;
ii. . knowing to whom the invitations are being sent; and
iii. assuring that all exempt employees in that particular organization have received an
$x invitation.
~
fs b. HR role:
i. provide lists of employees;
ii. receive RSVPs; -

8PleS8z802