increases noted for NNN and NAT, which may have been due to the
use of tobacco-derived nicotine containing traces of nornicotine
and anatabine. Previous data have shown that MS NNK does not
increase when free nicotine is added to the filler.

Aging Studies

1. An aging experiment was carried out on water-washed Bu
filler. After a total of 147 days at 45째C there was no
change in alkaloids. A ten-fold increase occurred in endo-
genous NNK, whereas there were only slight increases in NNN
and NAT. MS NNK was approximately doubled as a result of
aging, but MS NNN and NAT were unchanged. The samples stored
at -30째C were also unchanged. 39

2. The effects of aging on TSNA levels of stored BCR-RMs from
the Crossed Solubles Base Web (CSBW) study were determined.
Filler NNN and NAT levels of BuCEL on BuBW increased by
approximately 40% after one year at room temperature, while
filler NNK increased by 508%. MS NNN and NAT were only
slightly higher after the aging period relative to the time
immediately after preparation of the BCR-RM, but MS NNK was
increased by 87%.4째

3. An aging study under Jungle Room (JR) and Desert Room (DR)
conditions was carried out on blended filler extracted in the
ART process. The initial levels of filler NNK after SCFE
were about half those of the unextracted control. Endogenous
NNN and NAT levels increased during aging, but there were no
significant changes in filler NNK levels of SCFE. or feedstock
fillers due to DR or JR aging. There were no significant
changes in MS TSNA as a result of aging. There were small
but significant increases in all the SS TSNA as a result of
aging in both the JR and DR, although all of the TSNA levels
found in the MS or SS smoke from SCFE fillers after aging
were lower than those from the unextracted filler before
aging. There were so few significant changes in smoke TSNA
and those that occurred were so small that no valid correla-
tions could be identified. ?째

Unextracted Nicotine Studies: Nic-Y was found in BWs in the rank
order BuBW > BrBW > OrBW, with the amount in OrBW at the limit of
detection. The amounts, if any, of Nornic-Y are unknown. As
expected, Nic-X was not present in aqueous extracts of these base
webs, although water-extractable nicotine (EN) was present.

Differential digestions of SCFE DBC Bu, DBC Br and MT oriental
were performed. EN was present in the rank order Bu = Br > Or
(range 550 - 1340 ppm, referred to tobacco dry weight). Nic-X was
present in the rank order Bu > Br > Or (range 230 - 710 ppm).
Nic-Y was found in the water-extracted marcs in the rank order Bu
> Br > Or (range 75 - 290 ppm, referred to original dry weight).
Water-extractable nornicotine (ENN) was present in the rank order
Bu > Br > Or (range 950 - 3540 ppm). Nornic-Y was present in Bu

-4-

PpI00SEPzo7