Iv.

TSNA

relative to the unprocessed control, due to retention of the
endogenous TSNA and alkaloids on the cation exchange resin. In
the case of burley, the reductions in MS TSNA were: NNN (65%), NAT
(70%) and NNK (57%). For bright, the reductions were: NNN (87%),
NAT (90%) and NNK (77%).34

The extraction process described above was scaled-up to provide
larger samples for further studies. The scale-up resulted in
similar materials, but the reductions in MS TSNA were not as
great. A blend of the processed bright and burley fillers with
oriental was prepared. Cigarettes prepared from this blend gave
deliveries of MS TSNA that were reduced relative to a correspond-
ing control blend.35

In a cooperative study with Physical Research Division, the
effects on endogenous and MS TSNA of using different scrubbers in
the extraction of blended filler with supercritical (SC) CO, were
examined. The extractions were carried out by Project 1704 in the
1 L extractor using bright stems, carbon, and a water column as
CO, scrubbers, respectively, for the three extractions. The use
of stems as a scrubber resulted in ~52-62% removal of endogenous
TSNA, while water and carbon as_ scrubbers resulted in ~92-97%
removal of TSNA. Ona ng/cigt. basis, use of the stem scrubber
resulted in a reduction in MS NNN (30%), NAT (40%) and MS NNK
(13%). On the same basis, MS NNN and NNK were reduced by ~55%,
while MS NAT was reduced by ~67% when cigarettes made from fillers
extracted using either water or carbon as scrubbers were smoked. °*

Precursors

A collaborative effort with Chemical Research Division personnel
was initiated which resulted in the Soxhlet extraction of TI-1112
filler with a blend of triethylamine (TEA) - hexane (10:90) as a
model of SC CO, with a trimethylamine cosolvent. TI-1112 is a

high-nornicotine tobacco. The extraction resulted in reductions
in nicotine, anatabine and nornicotine of 70%, 72%, and 63%
respectively. In a similar manner, a sample of DBC burley was

Soxhlet extracted with the TEA/hexane mixture. Compared to the
use of hexane alone, the addition of the tertiary amine cosolvent
increased the efficiencies of extraction of all the bases, but the
effect. was much greater with respect to the secondary amine alka-
loids than for nicotine and TSNA, which can also be removed
readily by SC CO,.37

Microencapsulated nicotine bitartrate (yNBT) was prepared and
added to filler as a model for unextracted nicotine. This experi-
ment was' designed to determine whether the release of nicotine at
temperatures above those at which it would be distilled normally
would result in the formation of NNK during smoking. LA Bu
(JSBUV) was chosen as a substrate for the experiment because of
its low MS TSNA deliveries and high nitrate content. MS TSNA
levels from the LA Bu with 280°C releasable pNBT were increased by
~40% over control LA Bu. Corresponding increases of ~50-60%
occurred when 405°C releasable pNBIT was evaluated.3% The
increases in NNK with temperature were slightly greater than the

-3-

£900S8t202