Vv.

a ng/mg TPM basis, the LDR cigarette yielded marginally lower (15-
23%) VNA and TSNA values than those obtained from the correspond-
ing control prepared at normal density when smoked to a butt
length of tipping + 3 mm with filter plugs removed.‘ In the
second study, test cigarettes were designed to yield matched
tar/puff for all models. The cigarettes were smoked to the same
butt length as before, but with filter plugs intact. Comparison
of the LDR cigarette with a cigarette made to the same density
using DIET expansion resulted in significantly less MS and SS TSNA
for the LDR model. The LDR model also showed significant reduc-
tion in MS as well as SS VNA and TSNA when compared to the
unprocessed control. ‘44

In. the second LDR study summarized above, the deliveries of poly-
cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) to MS and SS impaction-trapped
smoke were determined. The levels of PAH found in MS smoke from
the LDR model were about twice as high as those found in the
corresponding model made using expanded tobacco. SS deliveries of
PAH were comparable except for B(a)P, and were only slightly lower
than those of the control. B(a)P levels for the LDR model were
higher than those of the control, while corresponding levels for
the model made using DIET expansion were lower than those of the
control, 25

Cc. RCB Studies: Filler and MS TSNA data were obtained on hand-made
RCBs made by Project 1307 from pre-ART and post-ART Br stems as
well as a control RCB made from unwashed Bu stems.45 The  sub-
stitution of post-ART stems in RCB at either 11% or 22% and the
incorporation of that RCB at 24% in a blend resulted in no
significant change in MS TSNA delivery relative to controls.‘*¢
There was no significant difference in filler or MS smoke TSNA
levels among RCB samples prepared from pre- and post-ART Br stem
samples. RCBs prepared from both pre- and post-ART Br stems
contained substantially lower levels of filler TSNA and gave lower
deliveries of MS TSNA than an RCB prepared from washed Bu_ stems.
In a third study, the effect on MS TSNA deliveries due to sub-
stitution of unwashed Bu stems for washed Bu stems in RCB used in
a blend was determined.13 The stems were present at 27% in RCB,
and the RCB was present at 24% in the blend. There was no sig-
nificant difference in the levels of filler TSNA found in the two
blends, and there was also no significant difference between the
MS smoke TSNA deliveries of the corresponding cigarettes. The
substitution of washed Bu stems by unwashed Bu stems yielded MS
smoke VNA levels that were significantly increased in the absence
of filter plugs.

Analytical Methods

A. It was discovered that the 14C-dimethylnitrosamine (!4C-DMN) used
as a recovery standard for VNA analysis had partially decomposed
during cold storage of the aqueous solution. A method was
developed for quickly determining the purity of the aqueous solu-
tions, and this method could be easily extended to allow purifica-
tion of the ‘/4C-DMN for future use. The same method was later

-6-

9900S8P202