To:

From:

Subject:

I.

PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia RESTRICTED
DISTRIBUTION

Ms. R. D. Kinser Date: 14 February 1990
A. H. Warfield

Summary of 6908 Activities for 1989

Oriental Tobacco Studies

 

A.

A study of the effect of agronomic variables on preformed TSNA and
MS. smoke TSNA from oriental tobacco was concluded. Samsun and
bright (McNair 373) tobaccos were grown under bright conditions,
and effects of topping, flue-curing and sun-curing were studied.
When filler TSNA levels were taken into consideration, the agro-
nomic variables had a very substantial influence on the transfer/
pyrosynthesis phenomena leading to the observed levels of TSNA in
MS smoke.?® Sun-curing gave much lower levels of preformed TSNA
than flue-curing. The lowest levels of MS TSNA relative to TPM
were delivered by the sun-cured and not-topped Samsun tobacco.

A pilot study was carried out on the relationship of chemical
characteristics of different oriental varieties to the levels of
endogenous TSNA found and MS TSNA produced when corresponding
cigarettes were smoked. There were significant variations in both
endogenous TSNA and MS TSNA among the three varieties. 27

Based on the results of the pilot study described above, an
expanded study of eight oriental varieties was completed except
for final data analysis. Wide ranges in the levels of various
components were observed depending on the country of origin as
well as grade designation in some cases. Only two varieties had
levels of endogenous TSNA typical of those found in blended
oriental fillers. Very low endogenous TSNA values were observed
for the other varieties. The variety found to yield the highest
level of MS TSNA was not the one which had the highest levels of
endogenous: TSNA. 28

Samples of American Aromatic Tobacco (AAT) that were grown in 1985
under bright conditions with air-curing were obtained from Roger
Bass (Project 2525). AAT originated from crosses between a South
American tobacco, a bright variety, and a burley. The TSNA levels
were lower than those found for a typical burley, but higher than
those found normally for oriental. NAT levels were considerably
higher than NNN levels in all these samples, while NNK levels were
low as is normal for burley. Endogenous TSNA tended to be propor-
tional to abienol levels in the five different crosses tested,
with some exceptions. ?°®

EFIONOS8 207