(560 ppm), but was not detected in Br or Or. Although anatabine
was present in each case, it was all extracted by hot water.

In an effort to devise a means of isolating Nic-X, hot-water
solubles were prepared from SCFE DL blend and fractionated by gel
permeation chromatography using BioGel P-4. Digestion in hot
alkali of the fractions eluted with water showed that Nic-X was
present in two fractions: one of molecular size greater than 4000

daltons, and at least one other of molecular size less than 4000
daltons.

Measurement of the various forms of unextractable alkaloids in
greenhouse-grown Bu-21 leaves has been initiated, but are incom-
plete. Freeze-dried green tissue contained 180 ppm Nic-Y, but

Nic-X could not be reliably estimated owing to the large con-
centration of EN.4!

Smoke NO data were obtained on water-washed Br filler. These
data, together with previous data on washed Bu and Or fillers,
showed that the MS NO delivery is approximately the same after
water washing regardless of what filler is used as a starting
material. This indicates that there is a source of NO that is not
water soluble. As working hypotheses, possibilities for the

source of this NO are protein, melanoidin, or atmospheric
nitrogen. ‘4?

In order to obtain preliminary data needed to determine the time/
temperature reaction zone for pyrosynthesis, experiments were
carried out on Bu cigarettes in which three consecutive 3 mm
segments behind the coal were examined for TSNA content relative
to comparable segments of an unsmoked cigarette. The data
obtained indicated that the increase in TSNA content previously
observed in the first 11 mm is distributed over at least the first
9 mm immediately after the coal rather than being confined
primarily to the first 3 mm, or the 250-450°C region. This was
interpreted as meaning that there are processes occurring in
addition to reaction of amine and nitrosating agent directly on
the filler, such as distillation/redeposition onto adjacent
segments. #3

Vv. Miscellaneous and Support Studies

A.

Diet Expansion Tower Temperature: The normal DIET expansion tower
temperature is 625°F. It was of interest to determine what would
be the effect of a lower DIET tower temperature on TSNA levels.
In a cooperative study with C. Moogalian of the Leaf Department,
it was found that lower expansion temperatures (350-450°F) do not
cause any significant changes in TSNA levels relative to the
feedstocks, 23

Low Density Rod (LDR) Studies: Two studies were carried out in
which LDR cigarettes were compared to controls to determine
whether there is any effect of this process on MS or SS VNA or
TSNA. The most significant result in the first study was that, on

-5-

S900S8PZ02