BETA B22 eter eam ree fem woe ee nO ne re eet Le eS Re Ee ee

R. D. Carpenter ,
J. L. Charles . 3 -April 24, 1978

The data in Table 1 do show significant differences in the
fraction yields of IT and ECT WSCs.

For the ECT sample the yield of the acid fraction is
higher, and the yield of the base fraction is lower than those
Found for the IT samples. As yet the chemical composition of
these fractions has not been investigated. — _

Because of the obvious difference in the MIA of ECT versus
IT, a set of ECT and IT fractions (including column chromatography -
of the neutral fraction) were tested in the Salmonella microsome
assay.15 The data are shown in Table 2. | The conclusions derived
from the data are: , a
. a) The +S9 activity of both IT and ECT distributes
similarly throughout the fractions. .

b) As usual, the base fraction is most important
on the basis of +89 specific activity (both
ECT and IT).

c) The MIA of the IT WSC and fractions is low, but
; - some activity is detected in the tar and in
- neutral fraction 3,

d) The MIA of the ECT WSC and fractions is high.
The MIA goes cleanly into the tar. From there
a small part of the MIA goes into the base fraction,
but the bulk goes into the neutral fraction.

e) Fractionation of the ECT neutral fraction shows
some MIA in fractions 2-5, but there seems to be
a clear peak of activity in fraction 3. (Based
a . ‘on these results Robin Kinser has begun a compara-
: , tive analysis of the ECT and IT neutral fractions
3. and 4.) . , ot
. There is another area where differences between X6D3NX-WSC-ECT
versus IT have been observed which has not yet been discussed.
The PAH fraction was isolated from both of these condensates
(210 cigts.) by the TLC/LH-20 procedure.!® GC scans of the PAH
fractions were run to see if there were any qualitative or ;
quantitative differences. None were found.!7 However, during the
TLC step. it was noted that an unusual orange-colored band occurred
in the ECT sample just below the PAH zone. 8 This band seems to. |
be unique to ECT X6D3NX WSC. It is not seen in IT X6D3NX WSC, nor
in X6D3RU WSC (ECT or IT). It was also not observed in any of the
15 model IT WSCs previously run for.PAH analysis. In preliminary

|

' OZL9ESTOSZ?