R. D. Carpenter
J. L. Charles © 2 April 24, 1978

activity depending on trapping procedure. The main evidence

is from the Salmonetia/microsome assay where ECT WSC from

high nitrate cigarettes (e. g-, X6D3NX) was. shown to have

high microsome-independent activity (MIA).2 Later work showed

MIA was virtually absent from TPM or IT WSC from. this same
_cigarette.* Similar results had already been observed in the
Salmonelta activities of ECT versus IT WSC from the RL reference _ .
cigarette (X6D5AKZ),1° which also contains a high level of nitrate
in its filler. Discussions with John Lephardt led us to the
hypothesis that MIA was an artifact of the ECT procedure, since
oxides of nitrogen are condensed out at the low trap temperature
-(-80°C) along with reactive molecules from the smoke. Initial
studies supported this interpretation.!! Based on these results —
it was proposed that not.only are there differences between WSCs
from bright and bright + NaNO3 cigarettes, but there is also a
significant difference between ECT and IT WSC from the high
nitrate cigarette itself. Several recent results related to

this hypothesis wil] now be considered. . ,

Lemon 0m

I URE mcs RENAE

RESULTS AND. DISCUSSION

An important initial experiment was to ‘add either No or
NO + No to the mainstream of X6D3RU (bright): which was then ECT.
The results were:
a) MIA was not observed in the No added sample.

b) NO addition produced a high level of. MIA (similar OO
to that seen in X6D3NX ECT). 12°13
t

This NO addition data is particularly significant because it
supports the formation of different species in the two trapping
procedures and offers some rational basis for this; ¢. e., NO
and/or NO, is. not trapped by IT while ECT provides a large volume-
Tow temperature environment which leads to aerosol formation and
long exposure of smoke components to oxides of nitrogen.

“. The next experiment was to do replicate smokings. ‘(210 cigts. )
and fractionation of X6D3NX WSC ECT versus IT. - The standard tar/
water partition, followed by acid, base, neutral fractionation
was used to see if a sufficient difference between the ECT and IT
WSCs would be reflected as differences in fraction yiélds.!*

*A significant difference in IT and ECT X6D3NX WSC has also been |
observed in another assay. W. McCoy, using the F. eo2é assay, '
finds IT more active than ECT (rank order comparison). W. NeCoy 1 oS
P. M. Notebook No. 7215, p. 80. . . tf ae

oe
™
iY
Oo