w To:
y
& From:

.

y Subject: .

- R. OD. Carpenter and J. L. Charles | Date: April 24, 1978

- J. Booker, S. Drew, R. Ferguson, and R. Levins

‘between normal and nitrate added WSCs. There is evidence that

PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Chemical and Salmonella/Microsome Differentiation of Elmenhorst
Cold Trapped and Impaction Trapped WSCs from X6D3NX (bright + NaNO)

SUMMARY

Chemical and Salmonella/microsome assay data on WSC from a
high nitrate cigarette (X6D3NX; bright + 6.7% NaNO3) suggest that
there are significant differences between Elmenhorst cold trapped

(ECT) and “itipaction trapped (IT) WSCs from this cigarette.
Considering our data and some literature data as well, we suggest
that additional biological evaluation(s)} be conducted ona ciga-
rette containing a high level of filler nitrate (e. g.,.added
NaNO3) using WSCs prepared by both IT and ECT procedures.

INTRODUCTION :

Interest in nitrate addition to tobacco filler has been
stimulated by reports of decreased in vivo activity of WSCs from
such cigarettes.! The addition of nitrate to filler has been _
reported to affect both WSC composition and cigarette delivery.
Among the effects reported are reductions. in puff count, TPM,
nicotine, and polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) level.2

However, nitrate addition also Teads to large.increases in

the levels of many smoke components: nitroalkanes;3-nitrobenzenes;*

and nitrosamines. The reason for these increases presumably is -
that the oxides of nitrogen (NOx) produced on smoking are reactive _
with many components in smoke. oo a . .

rf

This NO, reactivity has also been demonstrated to lead to .

 

Do ra
_ inl
omens He Mat Heep neteatn ene ene

aging artifacts (methyl nitrite) in the gas phase from high nitrate win

cigarettes.® There is also a report that the observed decreased
catechol level in ECT WSC from high nitrate cigarettes is due to .
artifactual formation of 4-nitrocatechol in the cold traps. 7
Other studies of nitrophenols in smoke question the artifactual
formation of these compounds.

eTZ9ESL0SZ

The chemical differences described above are differences

WSC from high nitrate cigarettes (X6D3NX) shows different biological.