est i z =. ae :

R. D. Carpenter ;
J. L. Charles 4 April 24, 1978.

work this band was separated from the bulk of the contami-
nating PAHs by one TLC development with cyclohexane... A gc
scan of this material showed numerous small peaks (probably
impurities) and evidence of a high MW substance probably
decomposing on the column. Probe MS gave three molecular
ions of 384, 386, and 408, and showed mainly alkyl groups
with a small amount of alkenyl groups present. An IR scan

showed mainly alkyl, small alkenyl and a small carbonyl]
function. i -

At this point we decided to isolate a larger amount of

a more highly purified material from the 1.2 g of ECT

X6D3NX WSC! The crude orange-colored band (called "X" band) -

was isolated by repetitive preparative TLC using 3:2 cyclohexane/
benzene. Fractionation on a 2.5 g LH-20/2-propanol column

gave a 9 ml fore-cut which ‘cleanly separated the "X" band

from the PAHs. Preparative TLC using triple development with
cyclohexane yielded three tight bands called "X-1", "X-2",

and "X-3". Respective yields were roughly 0.4, 0.4, and 40 mg.

Proton NMR of "X-3" gave a clean scan indicating a large
number of alkyl groups, a small amount of terminal or unconju-
gated alkenyl groups, and a spectrum generally resembling
that. of a high MW unsaturated fatty acid. This ties in well
with the preliminary data, but leaves unsolved the problem
of what functional group(s) is responsible for the intense
orange color. FTIR and mass spectra of "X-3" may clarify the
problem. Evidence for the presence of nitro groups will be
specifically sought. A !3C NMR scan will also be obtained... -

We plan on smoking a bright control .cigarette in the
presence of NO into an ECT to determine whether "X" band is

artifactually produced by the interaction of NO and WSC in the

cold trap.

In summary, we feel the evidence presented, which is based

mostly on research still in progress, does support the conclusion |

that there are some significant chemical and biological
differences in ECT and IT X6D3NX WSCs. We expect these differ- 1
ences to appear only in fillers with high nitrate levels based on
the hypothesis of a direct participation of NO, with other smoke
components. . , - . - -

_ Additional biological evaluation which makes use of both
ECT and IT WSC from a cigarette such as a normal alkaloid-high
nitrate (NaNO; added) blend would provide valuable additional
data on the possibility that trapping method could affect activity
for WSC from high nitrate cigarettes.’ .. ot

|
i

ut

T2LIESTOSZ

Ver eenae

1 LET emer en aa

owen