CBB-82778

-PROJECT NUMBER: 1806

PROJECT TITLE: New Tobacco Processes
SECTION LEADER: S..R.. Wagoner

PERIOD COVERED: June, 1988

I. GT_ART - SUPPORT

A.

Qbjective: To provide processes for converting and casing stem
materials for the Bermuda Hundred Pilot Plant.

Results: Batches of Louisville cut rolled stems (CRS) were cased
with either monopotassium citrate or citric acid and shipped to
the Bermuda Hundred Pilot Plant.

The D Pilot Plant CRS line was utilized to produce CRS at 150, 90,
and 53 cuts per inch for trials at the BHPP. These trials showed:
that all three cpi values produced the same pressure: drop vs
velocity profile for the absorber. This profile was also
different. from the Louisville CRS, as the Pilot Plant materials
produced less pressure drop at a given velocity.. The reasons for
these results are being investigated.

Plans: Continue to produce stem products as required by Project
ART
Transfer the Hauni WD. tunnel from the Louisville Stem Processing

Facility to D Pilot Plant, providing the capability of
superheating stems with equipment that has. produced IS of

acceptable quality in production.

II.. PROJECT ART - COMMERCIAL. PROCESS DEVELOPMENT

A.

Objective: To conduct trials providing information for
development of the ART commercial process.

Results: Post-ART filler was processed through. the VT separator
in MC Core 1 to provide clumps for steam treatment. (This ART run
was performed at nonstandard conditions to produce filler
containing a high percentage of compacted clumps.) The VT
provided a good separation at a maximum feed rate of ~2000'1 ‘hr.

_The run yielded 43% heavies (161 1b) containing 87% clumps The

heavy fraction was then processed through the burley spray
cylinder in the Semiworks at 500 lb/hr. Residence. time was 1.5
minutes, and steam was applied at the entrance and exit. The. exit
filler contained 20% clumps of reduced size. Moisture analysis of
the input and exit materials showed the OV. value to increase from
25.5% to 26.4% across the steam cylinder. This VI separator was
24" wide, therefore a larger 36" unit would’ process ~3000 lb/hr.
Thus, if this. approach was used for the commercial facility, the
designed flow rate (5700 lb/hr) would require two VI separators.

Han cigarettes were produced containing post-ART CRS
initi with 5, 8, and 10% citric acid for subjective

'd EN
ang Order Phitip nye 'NFop
digg Contam Pe My -Supy, on

  
 

“

coun = -89.931426764