Philip Morris USA CONFIDENTIAL

PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Dr. C. L. Ellis \\ Date: August 25, 1998

From: A. I. Goldsmith
4

Subject: The Merit story

When Merit was launched in 1976, part of the promotional activities included a whirlwind tour by Dr.
Ikeda touting the scientific breakthrough that enabled the creation of a low delivery cigarette with a
full flavor taste; other researchers also spoke to the press, including Bill Dunn, Walt Gannon, and Hel-
mut Wakeham. Based on the news reports —- some of which are enclosed — I pieced together a possi-
ble sequence to account for a reference to nine years of research in light of the fact that the quest for
a flavorful low tar cigarette goes back at least to 1958 [C58-00972; 1]. Actually, most news stories say
twelve years, which probably dates to the 1964 Surgeon General’s report. Interestingly, however,
C75-01560 lists HTI test codes for high burley blends similar to the Timer blend so as to be able to
substantiate claims that work had been continuing for seven years.

It would appear that Dr. Ikeda’s clock started ticking at about the time a research program began at
the Illinois Institute of Technology Research Institute (IITRI) of which Philip Morris was a sponsor.
Philip Morris first got involved with TRI in 1965 [C65-03108], when looking into electrostatic filters. !
Then in 1968, along with Airkem, Armour & Company, Gillette, Givaudan, Glidden-Durkee, S. C.
Johnson & Company, Lever Brothers, Procter & Gamble, Rexall Chemicals, and Vick Chemical, Phi-
lip Morris began jointly sponsoring a research program on odor characterization and measurement
headed by Andrew Dravnieks. Progress reports from IITRI [2-12] refer to olfactometers, and of course
gas chromatography was relied upon heavily, both of which correspond with the terminology in
Ikeda’s presentations. When the initial three year program concluded, Philip Morris signed on as a
co-sponsor of a two year follow-up program.

More significantly, Philip Morris assisted in a study on the determination of odor components in
tobacco smoke, which was sponsored by the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Con-
ditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). Phase I [9 and 13] found GC peaks correlating with likely contributors
to tobacco odor, and Phase Il used mass spectrometry to identify most of the constituents [11].
Although the commercial cigarettes used were Winston, Philip Morris provided 1R1 Reference
Cigarettes for use; some cigars and pipe tobaccos also were studied. In addition, PM R&D experts
assisted in the identification of some ambiguous mass spectra. There was supposed to have been a
Phase IIT geared to creating a tobacco odor simulant for room ventilation studies by mixing the most
important constituents identified in Phase II, but I have not found a copy of a Phase III report.

The Phase II report is significant, because later in 1974 one sees the first indications in internal docu-
mentation of the identification of odor-intense smoke constituents with the goal of using some to add
flavor to a low delivery product [IR74-089 and C75-05631]. The major discontinuity in this sequence
is that TRI’s compounds seem to relate more to room odor or even to stale odor than to the flavorful
odor of fresh mainstream smoke. The urgency of Project Timer seems to have left little time for writ-
ten documentation other than in laboratory notebooks, so it is difficult to determine how, when, and by

' Probably because the Surgeon General's Report discussed the charge on smoke particles.

bSP8TS090Z