0090-9556/88/1601-0001$02.00/0
DRUG METABOLISM AND DiSPOSITION

Copyright © 1986 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics

Vol. 16, No. t
Printed in U.S.A.

THE 1986 BERNARD B. BRODIE AWARD LECTURE

The Genetic Regulation of Drug-Metabolizing Enzymes

DANIEL W. NEBERT

Chief, Laboratory of Developmental Pharmacology, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health

I feel very honored, indeed, and also very humble, to have the
privilege of joining my four esteemed colleagues (1-4) in being
named as recipient of the fifth Bernard B. Brodie Award in Drug
Metabolism. I thank the American Society for Pharmacology
and Experimental Therapeutics (administrators of this award)
and the CIBA-GEIGY Corp. (sponsors of this award) for their
recognition of my studies on the genetic regulation of drug-
metabolizing enzymes. My training began in the laboratories of
Howard 5. Mason, and then Harry Gelboin, who both helped
me in choosing the direction of my future studies. I am thankful
for my association during the subsequent 18 years with numerous
talented colleagues and collaborators without whose skill, hard
work, creativity, and continued support and friendship the work
lam about to describe would not have been possible. Although
their contributions are well documented in the literature, there
are several individuals whose contributions are not. One of these
is Ernst Caspari, in 1959 with The Department of Biology,
Wesleyan University, Middletown CT, who inspired me to think
that “there can be little sense to biology, except in the context of
genetics and evolution.” Two others include Mort B. Lipsett,
previous Director of the National Institute of Child Health and
Human Development (NICHHD), and Arthur S. Levine, Sci-
entific Director of the NICHHD, who helped create the environ-
ment needed for the pursuit of innovative basic research. The
other individual is my wife, Kathleen Dixon, who has critically
reviewed many of my publications since 1981, and who gave
birth to two beautiful, healthy twin boys the same day that John
Schenkman informed me of my being recipient of the Brodie
Award.

This paper is directed at the graduate student and beginning
postdoctoral fellow. I wish to illustrate the chain of events in my
career—how the thinking in my laboratory led to the design of
an experiment, and how our interpretation of new data led to
the next hypothesis. At each point in time, of course, develop-
ment of the next experiment was heavily influenced by the
prevalent thinking, the skill and creativity of my postdoctoral
fellows and collaborators, and the techniques available.

Genetic Locus Defined, The metabolism of carcinogenic poly-
cyclic hydrocarbons, such as benzo[a]pyrene, was known 2 dec-
ades ago to be carried out by a P-450 enzyme, aryl hydrocarbon
hydroxylase (AHH).' We had found that it was possible to study
in cell culture the regulation of AHH activity—including induc-
tion by benzo[aJanthracene, cycloheximide, and actinomycin D
(5-9). The induction, by polycyclic hydrocarbons, of an enzyme
that metabolized polycyclic hydrocarbons, seemed very exciting
because of its relevance to human environmentally caused cancer

This paper is dedicated to the memory of Mort B. Lipsett (1921-1985), whose
enthusiastic support as a friend and administrator | shall never forget.

" Abbreviations used are: AHH, aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase; BP, benzo[a]
pyrene; MC, 3-methytcholanthrene; TCDD, tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin; UDPGT,,
UOP-glucuronosyitransferase; NMOR,, NAD(P)H:meadione oxido reductase; RFLP,
restriction fragment length polymorphism.

and toxicity. The induction of an enzyme by many of its sub-
strates also appeared to be very important in fundamental studies
of eukaryotic gene regulation.

A survey of AHH inducibility among several inbred mouse
strains (10) therefore “seemed like a neat idea” for several rea-
sons. (i) As Severo Ochoa noted, “All things being equal, it is
better to have a biologic mutant than not to have a biologic
mutant.” {ii} In 1969, carcinogenesis, mutagenesis, and toxicity
were just beginning to be measurable in tissue culture. The intact
mouse thus promised to be a better model for the study of
pathophysiologic effects of environmental chemicals. (iii) The
observations of genetic differences in the mouse can most likely
be extrapolated to human disease caused by the metabolism of
environmental carcinogens and toxic chemicals, A survey of
several inbred mouse strains (10) revealed a fundamental differ-
ence (table 1) between C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) mice. 3-
Methylcholanthrene (MC) treatment increased hepatic AHH
activity more than 6-fold in B6 but not D2 mice. A 2-nm spectral
shift in the reduced P-450-CO complex was also seen in MC-
treated B6 but not D2 mice. The B6-D2 difference was not
observed following phenobarbital treatment. One interpretation
of the table 1 data is that MC treatment of B6 but not D2 mice
might lead to the appearance, or large increase, of at least one
new P-450 protein; alternatively, MC might cause a decrease in
one or more other proteins, unmasking an already existing P-
450 protein in B6 but not D2 mice. Why does the B6 mouse,
when presented with a polycyclic hydorcarbon stimulus, respond
with an increase in polycyclic hydrocarbon metabolism while
the D2 mouse does not? The rest of my career to date has been
devoted to gaining a better understanding of this observation.

We first wondered what would happen if the genetically “re-
sponsive” B6 mouse were crossed with the genetically “nonres-
ponsive” D2 mouse. The lack of AHH induction was found to
be inherited as a Mendelian autosomal recessive trait (11) [al-
though the inheritance of this trait appeared to be more compli-
cated when we studied crosses between other inbred mouse
strains (12)]. Moreover, inheritance of this trait was found in

TABLE 1

Aryl hydrocarbon (benzofajpyrene) hydroxylase (AHH) from liver
microsomes of control and drug-treaied mice

AHH Specific Activity x

 

 

Sean Col 3-Methylcholanthrene* Phenobarbital’ ¢CO-reduced)
pmol/min}mg protein
am
B6 400 450
2500 448
1000 450
D2 400 450
400 450
1000 450

 

* Eighty mg per kg of body weight for 2 days.
Sixty mg per kg of body weight for 5 days.