October 19, 1994
MEMO

TO: J. D. Heck and C. L. Gaworski
FROM: M. M. Dozier
SUBJECT:: Progress! Report for September 1994

ACUTE TOXICITY/IMMUNOMODULATORY TESTING

R. House at IITRI finished alll scheduled follow-up immune
function studies for B100. While there was: some question. as to
the suitability of some: of the posiitive assay controls. used,
results suggest. no effect of B100 on natural killer cell activity
or T-cell blastogenesis. (with anti-CD3). The extended dose
Listeria host resistance assay (usiing B6C3F1 mice instead of CD1).
was not valid due to a lack of the required 5-35¥ mortality in
the control group. It is undecided! at. this: time whether to
repeat this assay using Listeria or use another bacterial host
resistance model. However, T-cell function as assessed by
induction of delayed type hypersensitivity was affected by dosing
with B100.. This may indicate that in vivo testing during the
dosing period or in vitro methods using tissue harvested during
the dosing period or shortly thereafter (before extensive celi
replication) may better reveal immunomodulatory effects. It may
also be interesting to look at stress-related endpoints (ACTH,
glucecorticoids, etc).

Immunomodulatory testing of B35 was initiated, as well as range
finder testing for B240 and B249.

Prices were received for both acute: toxicity and! immunomodulatory
testing of compounds in. 1995,

CELLULOSE ACETATE {CA) FIBER. PROJECT

Due to the intense efffort required of the local arrangements
committee for the upcoming TCRC, no work was done on this project
this: month. Results on chemical analyses are still pending from
F. Perini, who was also busy preparing a TCRC presentation.

TCRC. COMMITTEE

Attended planning committee: meettings and participated in various
organized! activities with other subcommittees. Verified all
arrangements for the guest hospitality program. Manned the guest
and on-site registration desk during the conference, and
supervised breakfasts and tours for the vegistered guests.

 

PL98T9IE8