+

 

 

Formation of iron clusters in a mucous-like medium

Appendix B

Lawrence E. Reinstein®), Lisa Robinson, and Arvin S. Glicksman®)

Department of Radiation Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital, 593 Eddy Street,
Providence, Rhode Island 02902

L-

ABSTRACT

In a recent paper based upon repeated magnetization
studies done on the lungs of smokers and non-smokers who
have inhaled small quantities of iron oxide powder, Cohen
et al claim that the dust clearance ability of the ciga-
rette smoker's lung is markedly impaired. A re-inter-
pretation of this data which casts serfous doubt on the
logic of Cohen's conclusion was suggested by Sterling and
is based upon the hypothesis that during the magnet-
jzation phase of Cohen's experiment, iron oxide "clus-
ters" were preferentially formed in the highly mucous-
filled environment of the smoker's bronchi.

In order to test this hypothesis, in-vitro expert
ments have been performed to measure the mean "cluster“
diameter of iron oxide powder in a mucous-like liquid
medium (methylcellulose) during and after magnetization
as functions of the solution viscosity. Results of these
measurements will be presented.

PACS number: 87.

In a recent paper based upon the results of magnet-
ization studies of the lungs of smokers and non-smokers,
Cohen et al(1) stated that the dust clearance ability of
the cigarette smokers' Tungs is markedly impaired. Con-
siderable doubt has been cast on this conclusion by
Sterling(2) who has re-interpreted Cohen's magnetization
data using the hypothesis that magnetic clusters were
formed preferentially in smokers' bronchi, due to the
presence of excessive sputun.(3) In order to test this
new hypothesis in-vitro, exper iments have been performed
to measure the diameter of iron oxide *strings"® and
clusters formed in a mucous or sputum-like medium after
magnetization.

It is clear that the validity of Cohen's conclus{on
hinges upon the assumption that the iron oxide dust which
remains in the subjects’ lungs after the magnet ization
procedure, has identical physical characteristics in both
smokers and non-smokers. While there is no simple way to
demonstrate the truth of this assumption in-vivo, it is
possible to show in-vitro that it is false and that, in
fact, the experimental procedure itself may cause the
fron oxide dust in smokers’ lungs to form clusters which
cannot be easily cleared.

yi
oS
w
oO
&
Ww
ra
w
w