PROCEDURE

The technique is similar ‘to the method used to
demonstrate "magnetic lines of force” to high school
science students. Iron oxide powder(s) which 4s
identical to that-used by Cohen et al (average diameter
approximately 5 microns), is suspended in a mucous-like
solution of methylceltulose(s) and water, and the sus-
pension placed in a uniform magnetic field of approxi-
mately 250 gauss. The suspended magnetic particles
immediately begin to rearrange themselves into straight
ines, (or “strings"} along the imaginary magnetic field

nes, ,

It has been reported(s,7,6) that both the quantity
and the viscosity of sputum or mucous in the lungs of
people exposed to smoke, dust, and fumes differ greatly.
With the help of a calibrated viscometer, the proportions
of methylcellulose and water were adjusted to obtain a
range of “artificial mucous" viscosity which corresponds
to that typically found in human bronchi,(9) 1.8, a
relative viscosity range (with respect to water at 20°C)
of 1.0 -10.0. Using a magnetic separation technique, the
non-magnetic contaminants of the iron oxide powder were
removed. The magnetic component was then divided so that
one milligram of the powder could be vigorously stirred
into each of the methylcellulose samples in order to form
a uniform mixture.

Each petri dish containing the mixture was placed at
the center of a pair of "Helmholtz coils" where it under-
went magnetization. The experimental procedure consisted
of the following sequence:

i. The mixture was de-magnetized by an ac “de-
gaussing" field. ,

2. An external dc magnetic field of approximately
250 gauss was applied for five minutes and then the field
was removed.

3, The sample was allowed to remain with no external

field applied for an additional five minutes.
During each sequence a serfes of 35 m photographs was
taken of the mixture at intervals of approximately one
minute. The negatives were enlarged onto 14x17 in.
sheet film and the dimensions of the magnetic string
images were measured with the calibrated scale of a di-
section microscope.

RESULTS

The initial suspension of degaussed fron oxide in
plain water (relative viscosity = 1.0) was a fairly uni-
form mixture as shown in Fig, 1. When the external dc
field was applied the magnetic particles began to align
themselves and the familiar string patterns were formed
as seen in Fig. 2 taken at te#0.5 minutes after the start
of magnetization. As the time spent in the magnetic
field increased, the numerous smaller strings joined into

 

w
°
Ww
a
£
w
=
a
an