relatively few larger strings. The photographs seen in
Figs. 3 and 4 (taken at t=2.0 minutes and t#5.0 minutes,
respectively) illustrate the increase in magnetic
"string" width with time. After the field was removed,
the sample was left undisturbed for five minutes and the
“string” patterns remained unchanged. The sample was
then stirred thoroughly as before, This yielded a
mixture containing clusters of magnetic particles (Fig.
5) and, therefore, was more heterogeneous than the
original suspension. (Fig. 1)

It is interesting to compare the "string" patterns
which formed at t=5.0 minutes in plain water (Fig. 4) and
in the sample with a relative viscosity of 2.6. feig. 6)
The “strings” are clearly narrower and more numerous in
the higher viscosity sample.

A graph of the “string” width as a function of time
is seen in Fig. 7 for three different solution vis-
cosities. In this graph, both the dependence of “string”
width on time in the field and on solution viscosity can
be seen. In addition, it 4s clear that the magnetic
"strings" did not become unstable and fall apart when the
field was removed. Only when the sample was stirred
vigorously did the "strings" break up to form clusters.
For the lowest viscosity case, the average cluster diam-
eter was measured to be 95y.

The variation of the magnetic string width with
solution viscosity after exactly five minutes in the mag-
netic field 4s seen plotted in Fig. 8. It is evident from
this graph that "strings" of iron oxide particles are
more readily formed in solutions of low viscosity.

CONCLUSION :

These experiments have demonstrated the dependence
on solution viscosity of magnetic “string” formation ina
mixture of iron oxide powder and methylcellulose. The
increased “string” size in the low viscosity solutions
are probably due to the increase in particle mobility
(i.e., there exists an inverse relationship between par-
ticle mobility in a suspension and its viscosity.) These
in-vitro results suggest that the basic assumption made
Tn the experiment of Cohen et al is not true: That jis,
the physical characteristics of the magnetic powder in
the lungs of smokers and non-smokers after magnetization
may not be identical. There is a much greater likelihood
that fron oxide powder will form strings and clusters in
a smoker's lung which contains excess mucous (i.e., an
environment where the particles are high] mobile), than
in the relatively dry lung of the non-smoker, These
clusters will be more difficult for the lung to remove or
solubilize, and may be the cause of the different clear-
ance rates in smokers and non-smokers.

wa
o
had
an
PJ
w
&
w
wl