west

HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
uced by Philip Morris...subjec
PHILIP MORRIS U. vt order Philip Morris v. ABC. This document

t itnot be used, shown or
NEE RT ORRTCE CORR eae BR provided in the court's order.

Richmond, Virginia

C90-04988

To: Mr. Joseph M. Garman Date: September 17, 1990

From: Barbara T. Joyner

CAPONE NNT IR TE red ER. ser otn ie

CER OPM ange

Lengn pe

TIT e  Aeenmerne cartes SN I CRANE CIE MN a FEIN RN AE UE Oe et

Subject: Smoke-Free Twenty-two Menthol Cigarette

The product "Smoke-Free Twenty-two Menthol" submitted by Judy Smith, was -

analyzed for the determination of nicotine, glycerin, PG and menthol. A non-mentholated
version of Smoke-Free Twenty-Two was analyzed previously for the same components.’
The product is packaged as five "pellets" of a tobacco-like material. One pellet is inserted into
the tip end of a plastic filter holder resembling a hollow cigarette rod and is puffed upon.

The product was assembled and "puffed" for forty consecutive 35 ml puffs to determine
the presence of any released components in the vapor state. Nicotine, PG, glycerin and
menthol vapors released through puffing on a 5-port smoking machine were trapped and
analyzed following a previously established procedure? The components released by dry
puffing were analyzed by gas chromatography. The results generated from the menthol version
are compared to results from the non-menthol version reported previously are shown below:

Menthol Non-Menthol
Nicotine ND ND
Glycerin ND ND
PG ND ND
Menthol <0.2 mg ND

The pellets were analyzed by capillary gas chromatography. Analysis for glycerin, PG,
menthol, and TA showed no within and between carton differences. Comparisons of these
components to Twenty-Two (Regular) showed greatest difference in menthol levels.

" Memo to Dr, Jane Y. Lewis, "Smoke Free Cigarette - Twenty-Two,” March 19, 1990,

* Memo to R. W. Kanipe, "Method for Analyzing Nicotine and Menthol in Nonbuming Smoking Articles.” August 19, 1987,

tenn ee oom. 9634400439 |