THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH-U.S.A,, ING.

 

BUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION 900 THmrp AVENUE
New YORK, NY 10022
(212) 421-8888

James F. Guenn, M.D. .
CHAIRMAN AND PRESIDENT April 27, 1994

Cuter Executive Orriczr

Robert E. Oswald, Ph.D.
Department of Pharmacology
Cornell University, College of Veterinary Medicine
Ithaca, New York 14853-6401
Re: Grant No. 3888
Dear Dr. Oswald:

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. (CTR), is pleased to offer you a new grant in the amount
of $70,000 (including indirect costs) for the period from July 1, 1994 through June 30, 1995 for the study
proposed in your application “Molecular Mechanism of Nicotine Action on CNS Acetylcholine Receptors."
It is understood that this grant is made subject to acceptance by institutional authorities. We recognize that
this appropriation is somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your study at a
productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit the enclosed revised
budget sheet to show how the available funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is enclosed for this
purpose. Also, many applications to CTR indicate partial or complete overlap with applications to other
agencies. If the latter result in awards, we should be notified promptly so that we can negotiate an
appropriate adjustment of our award.

@ The award is made without guarantee of support beyond June 30, 1995, even though we recognize that
your original application proposed a study extending two years beyond that date. Therefore, if by November
30, 1994 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a report of your progress, your request
will receive consideration.

Your attention is called to the enclosed “Important Procedural Information for Grantees". Please fill in
the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Please contact Drs. Harmon McAllister and
Arthur Eisenberg of our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant and keep us informed about the
progress of your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances over $1,000 at
the end of each grant year (see attached "Financial Requirements" for specific details). We suggest that
you personally keep an accurate record of expenditures and commitments. Please note that year-end deficits
cannot be recovered from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Moreover, our failure to
receive timely annual financial statements from your grants office will stop further grant payments,
Appropriate forms will be sent to your financial officer at the end of the grant year. Administrative problems
are relatively rare and we hope that this statement of our fiscal procedures will obviate any possible

misunderstandings.
Sincerely, 7%" 1.
EMM,

ames F. Glenn, M.D.
Encl.
ce: Frank J. Feocco
JFG:mm

bee: Auditors, ROK, LP, File
M/M, Monitors