MICHIGAN. STATE. UNIVERSITY

 

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY -¢ GILTNER HAIL . . oo . EAST LANSING * MICHIGAN ¢ 48824-1101

August 21, 1991

Dr. Harmon C. McAllister.
Research Director :
Council for Tobacco Research-U
900 Third Avenue

New. York, NY 10022

 

Dear Dr. McAllister:.

The Federation of American Societies for . Experimentai- ‘Biology (EASEB) will
sponsor the third. FASEB Summer Research ‘Conference: on the “Physiology and
Pathophysiology of the Splanchnic Circulation", which will be held at Copper
Mountain, Colorado on July 26-31, 1992. This conference will tentatively have
sessions on the following topics: — -

Session I Chemical Modulators of Gastrointestinal Blood Flow

Session II Interactions Between Neural . and Local Mechanisms of:
. Vasoregulation

Session III Molecular and Cellular Basis of Microvascular Functions.

Session IV The Microvasculature and Gastrointestinal Mucosal Injury:
“Role of Blood Flow and Vascular Permeability -

Session V . The Microvasculature and Gastrointestinal Mucosal Injury:
Role of Angiogenesis

Session VI . Role of the Circulation in Inflammatory Bowel. Disease (IBD)

Session VII Hepatic Circulation and Metabolism

Session VIII Alcohol Effects on the Liver and G.I. Tract.

Session IX Portal Hypertension.

The philosophy and goals of the meeting are unique. “In addition to bringing —
together clinicians. and. basic scientists with interests. in disorders of the
splanchnic organs, the meeting will bring traditional. investigators ofthe

' splanchnic circulation together with investigators using more cellular or

molecular techniques. Thus, we hope to identify potential new research areas
and to stimulate interdisciplinary research efforts. As the Conference
Chairman, 1 would like to invite approximately 50 eminent investigators to
speak at the meeting, and I want to encourage a number of promising young
investigators to attend, by. paying their expenses. Although both the American
Gastroenterological Society and FASEB have endorsed the conference. and have
provided generous financial support, I still need about $15,000 to ensure that
the meeting is a scientific success. The funds will be used exclusively for
support of eminent clinical and basic science investigators’ meeting costs.
($400) and travel expenses (between $400 and-$1000 for ‘domestic and foreign
participants).

Any amount of funding your. organization can contribute will be a great help.
In addition, if any of the members of your organization would benefit from |
attending the conference, please bring the opportunity: to their attention. As

Telephone: (517) 355-6475 Telex: MCI 650 305-6262 ‘FAX: (517) 355-5125 Birnet: MSUPSL@MSUNSCL

MSU ts an Affirmative Action/Egual Opportunity Institution ,