PROJECT NUMBER: = 1309

PROJECT TITLE : Cast Leaf Development
PROJECT LEADER :  G. Gellatly

PERIOD COVERED : September, 1991

CAST LEAF DEVELOPMENT

A.

Objective: Develop subjectively and physically acceptable reconstituted tobacco sheets
for domestic and intemational application using Cast Leaf technology and proprietary
binder systems.

Results: Cast Leaf Pilot Plant - The pilot plant is still on schedule for completion by
October 11. The grinding area should be operational by December. The latest schedule
includes a shipping date of November 8th for the grinder and November 22nd for the
cyclone, ductwork and dust collector. The dry ribbon blender and dust feeder will be
installed in November so that we can blend dust ground off site.

 

Operator training in control screen operation and in the BL Plant is complete. The pilot
plant and laboratory Job Safe Procedures are also completed.

Cast Leaf Development - Laboratory studies with hand cast sheets have shown that the
addition of guar gum binder to prewetted tobacco in the absence of DAP produces
stronger sheets. The addition of DAP to the formulation reduces sheet strength. A large
particle size guar mixed with the dry tobacco blend was also shown to improve sheet
quality. The mechanism of this phenomenon is believed to be a slower guar hydration
rate allowing better tobacco hydration to occur. Larger quantities of fine and coarse guar
have been ordered for confirmation of this phenomenon in the Cast Leaf Pilot Plant.

A preliminary analysis of 24% recon cigarettes indicated that the DAP content of the
recon is a major factor affecting tar and nicotine delivery, puff count, and static bum.
The recon used in this analysis included Cast Leaf Laboratory models as well as
production RLB, RLTC, and RCB which cover a wide range of sheet density.

Cadiz - Preliminary chemical analysis of the Cadiz trial products in August are
satisfactory. The bulk products are expected to be received in USA in October for
subjective and survivability assessment.

BL Plant Capacity Increase - The Richmond panel detected differences in BL produced
at higher line speeds (330 vs 350 fpm). Modification of the dryer profile moved the
subjective response closer to the control however additional trials, planned for October,
are required to qualify the line speed up.

Alternate Sheet Suppliers - LTR - Differences were detected in Marlboro containing
LTR sheet substituted for RLTC at a full (6.6%) and half (3.3%) replacement. The
findings were reviewed with M. Schulz from PME Leaf. Additional trials are planned at
LTR to produce sheet with European feedstocks for evaluation in a Pan European
Marlboro.

25

ESEerizzoz