-2-

3) We must be consistent in reporting OOS at retail for meaningful analysis. Therefore, the
following criteria should be used by all. . .
- Ifa store does not have product available for sale to the consumer - itis OOS. Quite
simply, they have it or they don’t during the sales call.
- Inacarton outlet, they must have at least one carton of the brand style for sale.
- Ina package outlet, they must have at least 3 packs for sale.
- Instores designated as “both", then both rules apply.

Product Availability R

1) Discontinue current reports/data in SIS effective immediately.

2) We plan to review the new product availability management reports with all RBMs during
their training in Winston-Salem (August 21-23). Documentation will be provided and RBMs
will ensure the Region management team has a complete understanding of how to execute
the report(s) and analyze. ~

* — Reports will be available with enhanced/meaningful analysis:
¥ Chain vs. independent - pack vs. carton outlets
¥ Volume brackets per manpower model
¥ Measured against number of doors and CIV
¥ Detail scroll list of accounts without product availability

* — Historical reports will be available for:
¥ PM exclusive accounts
¥ RJR “lock-out” accounts
v Price gap accounts

* — Flexibility of reports will be available to drill down via M01 screens to pin point opportunities
by multiple selections/criteria.

To allow sufficient data for meaningful reports/analysis, you should allow one to two months of
SR/RR coverage of accounts to supply data.

© Summary

This new product availability reporting procedures and reports will provide the detailed
information needed to better analyze the business and make more informed decisions to drive
against the objectives. It is in-line with “other” meaningful database reports (merchandising
contract CIV) which will strengthen RJR's ability to succeed in the short and long term.

Program Contact: Bill Roth, extension 6316

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY
Attachment

LLEZ GELTS