Newport 10's Update Page - 2 -

Analysis

1)

2)

Sales Data - Attached are sales of Newport 10's, total
Newport, Salem and Kool for the two test areas. The data is
inconclusive. Price increases, unavailability of tax stamps
(in South Bronx only), doubling of Michigan state tax and
competitive efforts have clouded the data. In both markets,
Kool came in and merchandised regular 20's packs at ¥5 price.

The first sheet for Detroit shows data for 14 stores, with
the latter two pages showing 5 stores only.

Leonard Rhyne attempted to smooth out and project sales but
this was not possible due to insufficient observations.

Field Observations - R. Hammer visited the South Bronx
division on June 25. (See R.D.H. memo of June 29). In
terms of incremental sales, there were no clear-cut
conclusions. However, the 10 pack moved and was purchased
by our target of young adults.

Response from Field sales was negative for the following
reasons. It was felt that it did not increase the overall
business. Initial purchases were based on the novelty of
the packaging. Pilferage and pricing confusion were the
most frequent retailer comments.

Next Steps

Following are recommendations and progress to date for further
10's testing. Two different types of tests are scheduled, an
in-store and a vending test.

1)

In-Store Test - Due to Reynolds's 12 pack test program,
plans for an in-store test have been re-evaluated.

The following steps have been taken. Sales Management
support has been given for conducting another in-store test
including plans to possibly use a chain as part of the store
panel. Chain participation will insure a cleaner test,
particularly with regard to competitive pressure. A number
of markets have been chosen. Two markets will be selected,
one with good Newport development and the other to be a less
developed, expansion-type area. A maximum of 20 stores per
area will be requested. Both should be "kings" markets as
we do not have box 10's capabilities. Also, it must ‘be
determined whether both kings and 100's should be offered.

Legal is determining whether those states have an adequate
quantity of tax stamps. Samples of stamps will be gotten to
make sure that the stamp fits on a 10's pack. Once this is
cleared, markets will be submitted to sales.

929922.08