Page Two
April 25, 1991

The words in the definition of "less than basic cost"
that concern me most are "or discount." In common usage, the
word "discount" connotes any price which has been reduced from
the regular or list price. This would include prices above cost.
If the provision were to be read this way, no sales of tobacco
products at less than full price would be permitted in New York
city.

My concern here is somewhat mitigated by the word "other"
which appears in the next clause of the provision, since this
implies the Council may have intended each of the words "free of
charge," "nominal" and "discount" to mean less than distributor’s
cost. Webster’s Dictionary also provides some comfort in this
regard. The primary definition of "discount" is "a reduction
made from the gross amount or value of something." Note that if
we assume the "value" to Lorillard of a pack of Newports to he
the cost of manufacturing (including the tax cost), this
definition would lead us to the conclusion that "discount"
implies only a price below such cost. Thus it could be argued
that the Council’s use of the word "discount" in Local Law 27
refers only to prices discounted from manufacturer’s cost rather
than prices discounted from the retail or manufacturer’s list

price.

Perhaps most helpful of all is Section 1 of Local Law 27
of 1990, entitled "Declaration of legislative findings and
intent." Here the Council members introducing the bill
explicitly express the intention of the Council to prohibit
commercial distribution of "free or nominally priced tobacco
products." The word "discount" is not mentioned.

Conclusion

Local Law 27 of New York, although questionably drafted,
is intended to prohibit only distributions of tobacco products
below the distributor’s cost, including any taxes. Since the
proposed distribution of Newport products would be at an
attractive price above cost, it appears that Local Law 27 of 1990
would not apply. It would probably be wise, however, to make
sure that the proposed distribution of Newport products complies
with the Cigarette Advertising and Promotion Code’s guidelines
regarding sampling.

As a precaution, I am in the process of checking to see
if there are any other New York State or City restrictions on
discounting tobacco products.

NS:irk

SL9SLETS