i
i.
i

‘
to
t

ON ET Ee IN Ce IE Ue EY Te ert ETE PREY ET Rar Be ene Or

RE

 

oe

9
y

%

Seri?

SOO OR RE ee ah re et et cei

“ME tor

wae

wen a ea ara

a Gori: Replied that the protocol is is not ‘frozen: that is “why he liste
duri ing this visit.

oan adequate base line.

.be used for each type of study.

   

i

hk

5

|

$

fi
, get if
ok Ba ke ihe
e

ib He

 

Senkus: Pointed out the difference in composition of smoke from the cigaret
from that of the smoke reaching the lungs due to the absorption. i in the buccal _
cavity of many components in the gas phase smoke. les

 

 
 

Gori: Conceded the point made by. Dr. Senkus, but stated that he Said not “think -
it was important. Gori repeated that the purpose of the study is:to take advan-.
tage of an existing method or model in order to find cardiovascular effects.

, DoE a : wo
Wakeham: Asked why ‘Gori was ‘employing the previous Auerbach ‘protocol |
when there is less controversial, less stressful, newer methods. 3. available

 
  

-for administering the smoke to the dog, such as the mask being t used at

Battelle Northwest.

 

ns to us

ie We rs Boe 6

Bates: Repeated again ‘the argument for sham smoking or contro I dogs t to give.

pst rh a! We

Gori: Refers back to. the point with regard to the use: of a ‘mask. He argues | ,
that the mask is equally stressful as a tracheostomy. He argues. the need

for obtaining maximum exposure levels in order to get desired effects. He
admitted that it might be desirable to do sham smoking, but this would necess-
itate the minimum of dogs in each sample group because of the limited number
of dogs available and budgetary requirements. ;

7 3
Gori: He admitted that the model, is not a practical bioassay and. would probably.
never be uséd_again, but feels that the current opportunity should be seized to

provide some input of the effects of-cardiovascular effects from Jong- term nico- .
tine exposure. "We have it, iti is available, and we can get some 2 knowledge # fom
it."

seieteAF
‘

Spears: What end points measurements will be made?

ve ne

Gori: End point determinations will include emphysemous changes as well as

'. cardiovascular. He expressed the hope that with the funds of the. National

Heart and Lung Institute they would be able to make measurements of respir-
atory and cardiovascular parameters on the dogs during the course of the
experiment. He did not deny that Averbach would probably also make an.
examination for cancerous changes when it was pointed out that cancerous _.
changes and emphysemous changes could not be determined simultaneously

on the same lung. He.reminded us that the dog has two lungs, and one could

=

Gori: Remarked that he. sensed. we (t] 1¢ ‘research directors) would be more
comfortable with the use of a mask and better smoke generation conditions.

He said he recognized the need to determine dosage. He summarized by,

saying he believed he could meet our objections by the use of the mask, the

:

hU8hh22202

:

Ub eh