THE JOURNAL OF Bioacical. CHEMISTRY
© 1993 by The American $ y for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

 

  

Vol. 268, No. 4, Issue of February 5, pp. 2 iS
Printed in U8 A.

 

Expression, Characterization, and Tissue Distribution of a New
Cellular Selenium-dependent Glutathione Peroxidase, GSHPx-GI*

(Received for publication, March 26, 1992}

Fong-Fong Chut, James H. Doroshow, and R. Steven Esworthy
From the Department of Medical Oncology and Therapeutics Research, City of Hope National Medical Center,

Duarte, California 91010

We have characterized a new selenium-dependent
glutathione peroxidase, GSHPx-GI, by expressing a
GSHPx-GI cDNA isolated from human hepatoma
HepG2 cells in human mammary carcinoma MCF-7
cells, which have virtually undetectable expression of
either the classical cellular enzyme, GSHPx-1, or
GSHPx-GI at the protein level. One of the G418-re-
sistant clones, neo-D1, expresses the transfected
GSHPx-GI cDNA. This is based on 1) the presence of
an additional GSHPx-GI DNA restriction fragment
detected by Southern analysis; 2) the presence of a 1.9-
kilobase (kb) GSHPx-GI mRNA in addition to the 1.0-
kb endogenous mRNA by Northern analysis; and 3) the
appearance of a 22-kDa ™Se-labeled protein which is
absent in parental MCF-7 cells revealed by SDS-poly-
acrylamide gel electrophoresis.

GSHPx-GI expressed in neo-D1 is a tetrameric pro-
tein localized in cytosol. GSITPx-GI does not cross-
react with antisera against human GSHPx-1 or human
plasma glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx-P). Similar
substrate specificities are found for GSHPx-1 and
GSHPx-GI; they both catalyze the reduction of H,Oo,
tert-butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, and
linoleic acid hydroperoxide with glutathione, but not
of phosphatidylcholine hydroperoxide. GSHPx-GI
mRNA was readily detected in human liver and eolon,
and occasionally in human breast samples, but not
other human tissues including kidney, heart, lung, pla-
centa, or uterus. In rodent tissues, GSHPx-GI mRNA
is only detected in the gastrointestinal tract, and not
in other tissues including liver. In fact, GSHPx-GI
appears to be the major glutathione-dependent perox-
idase activity in rodent GI tract. This finding suggests
that GSHPx-GI could play a major role in protecting
mammals from the toxicity of ingested ipid hydroper-
oxides.

In conclusion, we have demonstrated that GSHPx-
GI is the fourth member in the selenium-dependent
glutathione peroxidase family, in addition to GSHPx-
1, GSHPx-P, and phospholipid hydroperoxide gluta-
thione peroxidase (PHGPX).

 

* This work was supported by American Heart Association Greater
Los Angeles Affiliate, Grant-in-Aid 901 GI-2, and National Cancer
Institute Cancer Center Support Grant CA 33572. The costs of
publication of this article were defrayed in part by the payment of
page charges. ‘This article must therefore be hereby marked “adver-
tlsement” in accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 solely to indicate
this fact.

The nucleotide sequencefs) reported in this paper has been submitted
to the GenBank™/EMBL Data Bank with accession number(s)
X68314.

+ To whom correspondence should be addressed: Dept. of Medical
Oncology, City of Hope National Medical (tr., 1500 E, Duarte Rd.,
Duarte, CA 91010-0269. Tel.: 818-359-8111 (ext. 3891/2426); Fax:
818-301-8233.

Selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase activity is due
to the expression af multiple isozymes. Three of the isozymes
have been previously purified and characterized at the protein
level. They are: (a) the classical cellular glutathione peroxi-
dase, GSHPx-1' (1), (b) the phospholipid hydroperoxide glu-
tathione peroxidase, PHGPX (2), and (c) the plasma gluta-
thione peroxidase, GSHPx-P (3, 4). Both GSHPx-1 and
GSHPx-P are tetramers and have similar substrate specifici-
ties. They can metabolize HQ. and fatty acid hydroperoxides
effectively but metabolize phospholipid hydroperoxide and
cholesterol hydroperoxide poorly (5, 6), On the other hand,
PHGPX is a monomer and has different substrate specificities
compared to GSHPx-1 and GSHPx-P. PHGPX catalyzes the
reduction of phospholipid hydroperoxide, cholesterol hydro-
peroxide, and linoleic acid hydroperoxide much more effec-
tively than the reduction of H,O, and tert-butyl hydroperax-
ide.

GSHPx-1 and PHGPX are present in most of the tissues
that have been examined. GSHPx-1 is present abundantly in
erythrocytes, kidney, and liver (7); and PHGPX is present in
testis at a high level (8). On the other hand, GSHPx-P exhibits
tissue-specific expression: it is detected in plasma, milk, and
lung (3, 4, 9, 10). In humans, GSHPx-P mRNA is expressed
in liver, kidney, heart, lung, placenta, and breast tissue:
whereas, in the rodent GSHPx-P is not expressed in liver,
although rodent kidney has a higher level of expression which
may compensate for no GSHPx-P expression in liver (11).
The cDNA sequence of these three glutathione peroxidase
isozymes have been previously reported; they all contain a
UGA codon coding for selenocysteine (12-15).

In addition to these three isozymes, a 24-kDa epididymal
secretory protein homologous to glutathione peroxidase has
been reported in mouse. This 24-kDa protein is inducible by
testosterone, and it is only expressed in epididymis (16, 17).
Since the published nucleic acid sequence of the 24-kDa
protein does not contain a UGA codon, whether it should be
included as an isozyme of the selenium-dependent glutathione
peroxidases is debatable.

We isolated a GSHPx-GI clone from human liver and
human hepatoma HepG2 cDNA libraries in Agt11; this CDNA
shares sequence homology with GSHPx-L (18). The cDNA
clone, GSHPx-GI, was subsequently reported by Akasaka et
al. (19), who also isolated it from a human liver library.
GSHPx-G1 cDNA contains a UGA codon; this suggests that
it may be a fourth selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase
isozyme. Because the protein product of GSHPx-GI had not
heen identified, it was possible that GSHPx-GI was a pseu-
dogene. In this report, we present data on the analvsis of

 

* The abbreviations used are: GSHPx, selenium-dependent gluta-
thione peroxidase; PHGPX, phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione
peroxidase; DMEM, Dulbecco’s modified Eagle's medium: PAGE,
polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.

2571