Iv. Strip/Cut Filler Optimization Project

Hoyt Beard discussed a project being formulated to determine optimum
strip and cut filler characteristics. This is an outgrowth of the work being
done by the Strip Quality Task Force.

V. Definition of Area Of Responsibility

A. Leaf and Blends Subcommittee

Harold Threatt proposed that the work being done by the committee would
fit well if organized as a committee reporting to the newly formed Leaf and
Blends Subcommittee (see Attachment 2). This will be discussed at the next
Leaf and Blends Subcommittee meeting.

B. Possible Name Change

The committee agreed with the recommendation to change its name to the
“Strip and Cut Filler Processing Committee". The mission statement will
include “maximizing the acceptable cigarettes per pound."

VI. Miscellaneous

A. There was a good deal of discussion about where the committee should
concentrate its efforts. Bobby Hardin said that he would like to see the
committee select the top two or three projects and actively pursue their
accomplishment. Others felt that the maintenance of the project list was very
important and should not be discarded/abandoned. The consensus was that both
approaches were worthwhile. Grouping the projects by category appears to be
what is needed:

Category I:

Top Priority
2-3 Projects
e Actively Discuss at Meetings

Normal Projects

e@ Maintain Awareness/Monitor Progress by Use of Project
List

e Project List Maintained Prior to Meetings

Category II:

Projects of Doubtful Benefit
® Subcommittee to Recommend Discontinuing Work

Category III:

Action: As the next step is addressing this, each committee member is
asked to make two lists and return them to Harold Threatt by March 14:

1. Category I Projects - list up to 6
2, Category III Projects.

The projects will be tabulated; this will serve as a focal point for
discussion at our next meeting.

B. Provided the Leaf and Blends Subcommittee approves, John McKenzie
will prepare a mission statement, list of objectives, etc., for the
committee's review at the March 28 meeting. Once this is resolved, decisions
will need to be made on membership/chairmanship of the committee.

$909 STECS