Another phase of these studies currently underway in our
laboratory is concerned with the alteration of the smoke/air
cycle and its effect on respiration as well as smoke deposition.
The data obtained to date are summarized in Table 2. The smoke/
air cycle was varied from 20"/40" to 30"/30" to 40"/20". Smoke
concentration was 10% in all instances. Based on smoke holding
time alone, one would have predicted a 50% increase in smoke up-
take comparing the 20"/40" and the 30"/30" smoke/air cycle and a
30% increase comparing the 30"/30" and the 40"/20" smoke/air cycle.
However, aS the data in Table 2 show, there was little difference
in lung deposition between the first two exposure conditions, but
a doubling in deposition with the last condition. The minute
volume shows corresponding changes based on measurements taken dur-
ing the smoke holding time. While minute volume was markedly re-
duced with the 20"/40" and-30"/360" smoke/air cycle; -it approached
near normal values with the 40"/20" cycle, giving additional support
as well as at least a partial explanation for the deposition values.
A look at an example of the respiratory pattern during 40 seconds
of smoke exposure (10% smoke, intermittent smoke exposure) explains
why deposition is poor during the first 20 seconds of smoke holding
and more efficient during the subsequent 20 seconds (Figure 4).
Even though this is admittedly a rather extreme example, it illustrates
the type of abnormal respiration (particularly during the early phase
of the smoke cycle) which is commonly observed.

Studies such as the ones described allow us to determine the
most effective set of conditions to achieve a high lung dose; they
also show that the relationship between smoke exposure (i.e., con-
centration and exposure duration) and sustained lung dose is not a
simple one.

Development of Chronic Tobacco Smoke Exposure Protocols

In developing experimental protocols for chronic studies, we
must face the problems of acute and chronic toxicity. Identifying
exposure conditions which favor maximum deposition is one thing, but
finding the maximum tolerated dose for a chronic study is quite
another. Apparently the two main toxic smoke components that we
have to contend with are carbon monoxide and nicotine. Depending
on the investigator's primary interest, their effects are either the
topic of investigation or an annoying complication. For the student
of carcinogenesis, they are the latter unless he has reason to be-
lieve that they are somehow involved in the overall carcinogenic
potency of tobacco smoke. Studies by Reckzeh et al (7) and others
indicate that there are marked species differences in susceptibility
to tobacco smoke toxicity which are mostly related to a variable
sensitivity to nicotine. Acute toxicity studies with hamsters and
rats carried out in our own laboratory are summarized in Table 5.
Groups of 10 animals were exposed to tobacco smoke (10% smoke, ‘
30"/30" smoke/air cycle) until half of the animals had expired.

32

2Olo 29T0OS

a nee ns en ereniney se tw

.
ee ee

Shaw wee ernment