awe

NN

eon ———a —_". —— “a

mee, — —, a

Studies in various laboratories (4,5) with the two labeled
aliphatic hydrocarbons suggest that the dotriacontane is almost
exclusively transferred to the particle phase of tobacco smoke and
is well suited to study smoke particle deposition, while hexadecane
appears to be too volatile to be useful for this purpose. An intra-
tracheal injection study with these two hydrocarbons indicated that
hexadecane, in contrast to dotriacontane, disappeared from the lungs
very rapidly (Figure 1)*, suggesting that it might not be advisable
to use it as a tracer for deposition studies. Our work on tobacco
smoke dosimetry, discussed below, was conducted with 14¢-dotriacontane
as a tracer for the particle phase.

All tobacco smoke exposure studies were carried out with an
intermittent smoke generation-and-exposure system (Maddox/ORNL
machine, described by M. Guerin in the subsequent section). The
experimental cigarette, provided by the NCI (cigarette number 9,
nonfiltered 85 mm), delivers 1.4 mg of nicotine, 13.8 ml of carbon
monoxide, 26.3 ml of carbon dioxide, 24.2 mg of total particulate
matter (TPM), and 20.8 mg of tar in a total of 9 puffs (23-mm butt
length, standard analytical smoking conditions). Unless otherwise
stated, the "standard" smoking conditions are: 10% smoke, 30"/30"
smoke/air cycle. The lung deposition data are expressed either as
percent of input (i.e., amount found in the lung as percent of total
amount offered in the exposure chamber) or as total particulate
matter (TPM):

. oq = dpm in lung :
TPM in lung dpm/cigarette X (TPM/cigarette).

The underlying assumptions for these calculations are: 1) The TPM
delivered per cigarette is constant, namely 24.2 mg (cigarettes are
preselected for labeling on a weight basis; the smoke generator is
calibrated prior to the experiment). 2) The amount of '"C-
dotriacontane per cjgarette is constant: the uniformity of labeling
of cigarettes with '"C-dotriacontane is tested prior to each experi-
ment. 3) The 14c-dotriacontane is transferred uniformly to the
particulate fraction of the smoke aerosol.

Neither the COHb measurements nor the tracer measurements are
very practical for repeated and routine determination of sustained
smoke dose during the course of a chronic inhalation experiment.
For this purpose, the third approach may be useful. This approach,
currently under investigation in our laboratory, is based Se
on monitoring the concentration of a smoke component in the exposure
chamber of a static exposure system. If a smoke component is irre-
versibly deposited or retained by the animals, then a decrease in
the concentration of the smoke component in the chamber will be ob-
served during the exposure. Figure 2 illustrates our’studies on
nicotine depletion. With no animals, or with dead animals on the
system, the nicotine concentration remains essentially constant
during the exposure period, whereas with ten live hamsters present,

————
Figures on pages 23-31.

25

6600 29T0S