a gradual decrease in the nicotine concentration is observed over
the exposure period. We think that the observed concentration de-
crease is due primarily to uptake and retention of nicotine by the
animals. If this proves to be the case, then it will be possible
to relate the total dose received by the animals to the concentra-
tion decrease or depletion of nicotine and possibly other smoke
components in the exposure chamber. The advantages of this method
are that it is potentially applicable to many smoke components and
that it is a nondestructive test. The disadvantage is that only
total animal retention can be determined; dose to a specific organ
cannot be obtained.

We have recently carried out a pilot study in which the smoke
dose estimates made from lung deposition with 4c¢-dotriacontane
were compared with those made from nicotine depletion. The results
of this experiment are shown in_Table 1. Two groups of 10 hamsters
were exposed to 10% smoke from 14¢-dotriacontane-labeled cigarettes
using either a 30"/30" or 40"/20" smoke/air cycle. The concentra-
tion of nicotine in the exposure chamber was determined immediately
after the exposure began and immediately preceding the termination
of the exposure. A simultaneous measurement of the dose of !"C-
dotriacontane received by each animal was made during this exposure.
Depletion of nicotine, expressed as percent depletion/animal, was
compared with the total body tracer deposition expressed as a per-
cent of smoke input (Table 1). Although deposition as meggured by
chamber depletion agrees reasonably well with total body
dotriacontane deposition, a somewhat higher dose is indgcated by
the chamber depletion method. These initial results indicate that
the method has promise, and we are currently attempting to determine
the reason for the differences in results obtained with the two
methods. We suspect that they may be due to either different up-
take or retention of the two smoke tracers (nicotine versus !"C- ~
dotriacontane) or that there may be losses of nicotine from the
exposure chamber which are not accounted for in the chamber depletion
method.

Factors Influencing Tobacco Smoke Uptake

Little attention has been given to the factors that can de-
cisively influence the dose received by animals exposed to tobacco
smoke. Reading the literature, one can hardly escape the impression
that most investigators believe smoke concentration and smoke ex-
posure duration are the only major factors influencing smoke dose.
However, our studies show that it is hardly an overstatement to say
that the investigator determines the smoke exposure conditions
(method of smoke generation, smoke concentration, exposure time,
etc.), but the animal - responding to these conditions - determines
smoke uptake or dose. :

26

9600 z29T0s .

eo — — ——