According to this admittedly crude measure of toxicity, the F-344
rats were the most susceptible and the 87.20 hamsters the most
resistant animals. These findings generally confirmed those obtained
by Reckzeh et al (7) and Bernfeld et al (8), indicating the great
resistance of hamsters to tobacco smoke and in particular nicotine
toxicity. Subsequent studies on lung deposition and respiration con-
sistently showed a reduced lung dose to 87.20 hamsters (see Table 6)
when compared with Syrian golden hamsters (RGH/ARS) of the same sex
and body weight. These data are supported by COHb values obtained

in one of the experiments, which showed a mean of 27.3% COHb in
RGH/ARS hamsters as compared with a mean of 21.0% COHb in 87.20
hamsters following exposure to 2 cigarettes. Lung deposition data on
rats and hamsters exposed simultaneously on the same smoke exposure
device show no significant differences (see Table 7}. These data
again emphasize the importance of obtaining information on smoke dose
to the lung of exposed animals. Based on acute toxicity studies as
described above (and also ref. 7), one would probably reject the

rat as unsuited for chronic smoke inhalation studies, because of its
great susceptibility to tobacco smoke toxicity. However, as will be
discussed below, with gradual adaptation to tobacco smoke, rats can
be exposed to nearly the same smoke exposure ‘levels per day as hamsters.

The question that remains to be discussed is: How, with the in-
formation from the short-term dosimetry and toxicity studies at hand, |
does one arrive at an exposure protocol for chronic smoke inhalation
studies? Two main factors need to be taken into account. First,
whatever animal species, type of cigarette and smoke concentration are
chosen, one needs to prevent buildup of toxic CO and nicotine levels.
To put it another way, time must be allowed for clearance and
metabolism after these toxins have reached a certain level. Second,
animals need to be adapted slowly to increasing smoke exposure levels.
This is particularly critical for species with great nicotine sensi-
tivity such as rats. The importance of interrupting smoke exposure
and allowing time for clearance of toxic substances is best illustrated
by the fact that hamsters do not tolerate exposure to 10 cigarettes
given in succession (see Table 5: 50% of the RGH/ARS hamsters, which
is the line used in most of our studies, were dead after 50 minutes
of smoke exposure, not counting the air breaks in the 30"/30" smoke/
air cycle; this corresponds to approximately 10 cigarettes), but can
survive a daily dose of 12 cigarettes for many weeks if time is allowed
for detoxification between exposures. Table 8 shows the COHb levels of
hamsters during a smoke exposure protocol designed for a daily dose of
12 cigarettes. The blood levels always stay below 40% because of the
detoxification period inserted after the 3rd, 6th, and 9th cigarette.
Even though we have no data on buildup or metabolism of nicotine under
these conditions, it is likely that the rest periods allowed are ample
to prevent nicotine from reaching toxic levels. The bottom line of
Table 8 shows COHb levels in the blood of hamsters dying during un-
interrupted exposure to 10-18 cigarettes without allowing air breaks
(other than those that are part of the 30°/30" smoke/air cycle). We

34

- 90t0 29T0s