currently do not have dosimetry data from the smoke exposure
protocol outlined in Table 8. However, we have collected infor-
mation on tidal volumes and respiratory rate from animals after
exposure for 6 months in a 12 cigarette/day exposure protocol

and have found no marked changes during smoke exposure in either
parameter, except at the beginning of the exposure scheme. For
convenience the data obtained at 6 months of exposure (Figure 5)
are expressed as average minute volume during smoke exposure

(not including the air breaks during the 30"/30" smoke/air cycle).
As discussed previously, the minute volume during actual exposure
fluctuates around 30 ml (as opposed to 65 ml in controls).

The final evaluation of the feasibility of such exposure
protocols for long-term studies was performed in experiments last-
ing for several months. The following variables were explored:
different smoke/air cycles; different numbers of cigarettes per
day; and different experimental animals (two hamster strains and
F-344 rats). Figure 6 shows a survival study with RGH/ARS hamsters
in which the chronic toxicity of the 30"/30" smoke/air cycle was
compared with that of the 40"/20" smoke/air cycle (12 cigarettes/
day). This was important since we had earlier shown (see Table 2)
that deposition of smoke particles is far greater with use of the
latter cycle. The data summarized in Figure 6 give no indication
of differences between the two smoke/air cycles in terms of survival.
However, observations on body weights (not shown) suggest some in-
creased chronic toxicity with the 40"/20" cycle. Figure 6 also
indicates that the daily exposure to 12 cigarettes would be too high
for a tumor induction study with the RGH/ARS hamster but apparently
not for the 87.20 hamster. In Figures 7 and 8, survival and body
weight data are summarized from a study in which the feasibility of
exposures of 10 cigarettes/day and 12 cigarettes/day were tested
and compared. It is obvious that only the lower exposure level is
tolerated adequately and is therefore feasible for a long-term test.
A marked reduction in body weight was observed in both groups; this
is, in part, due to the stress from daily restraining for several
hours. Similar studies are presently under way with rats. These
indicate that rats can be exposed to 7 and possibly as many as
10 cigarettes/day (using the standard intermittent smoke/air cycle
of 30"/30") for prolonged periods of time. Some weight loss occurs
during such exposure: but is not very dramatic (Figure 9). One of
the current studies shows that rats can be exposed for at least
9 months without any mortality occurring, provided the rats are
adapted to the smoke gradually and 1/2 to 1 hour is allowed between
individual cigarettes for detoxification. This indicates that the
difficulties using rats for long-term tobacco smoke exposures at
high exposure levels can be overcome. Our experience also shows
that if specific-pathogen-free (SPF) rats are used and are main-
tained during the duration of the exposure study under SPF conditions,
the otherwise severe complication of chronic murine pneumonia can be
avoided. Because of the apparent high susceptibility of the rat lun
to the carcinogenic action of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (9-125,
we feel that the rat has the potential to become a choice test animal
for carcinogenesis studies with whole tobacco smoke.

38

goto 29t0S

aoe een