How severely respiration is affected during smoke exposure is
exemplified by the data shown in Table 2 and Figure 3, which, shows
a drastically lowered minute volume and a marked change in the
pattern of respiration (Figure 3) during "standard" conditions of
intermittent smoke exposure (see also ref. 6). Table 2 also shows
the respiration changes as these conditions are being altered. (The
data in Table 2 will be discussed in greater detail below.) This
response to tobacco smoke exposure is remarkably consistent for any
given exposure condition and a given animal species or strain. It
is also clear from the data summarized in Table 2 and Figure 3 that
it is incorrect to use the normal minute volume to estimate smoke
dose or depletion rate of smoke from the exposure chamber, as is
often done, because the minute volume of a smoke-exposed hamster
can drop to one-half or less that of an unexposed hamster. Such a
reduction in minute volume will, of course, result in reduced smoke
uptake...

 

Perhaps equally important is the fact that even without dimin-
ished minute volume the change in respiratory pattern alone (res-
piratory rate versus tidal volume) can markedly alter smoke aerosol
deposition (and thus dose). This is illustrated in Table 3, which
summarizes the data from a study in which the respiratory rate and
the tidal volume of paralyzed hamsters were artificially controlled
combining a high rate with a low volume and vice versa but keeping
the minute volume constant. It can be seen that a high respiratory
rate combined with a small tidal volume disfavors deposition, while
a low breathing frequency combined with a large tidal volume favors
particle deposition. With the demonstrated effect of smoke exposure
on respiration and of respiration on particle deposition, it is ob-
vious that systematic studies are needed to identify those exposure
conditions which favor a high lung dose.

Our first attempts to determine the effect of smoke concentra-
tion on smoke particle deposition in the lungs of hamsters are
summarized in Table 4. As is to be expected, such deposition studies
are plagued by a marked animal-to-animal variation and require, there-
fore, a rather great number of observations to obtain statistically
significant results. The data currently available are based on 10
animals per group. The results therefore must be interpreted with
caution until further data become available. Our preliminary find-
ings suggest that the smoke particle deposition is directly propor-
tional to smoke concentration (keeping the smoke/air cycle constant
at 30"/30"). In these experiments, to achieve a 5% smoke concentra-
tion with the existing Maddox/ORNL system it was necessary that the
chamber volume be increased from 350 to 700 ml. Since we do not yet
know what effect chamber volume has on smoke dose (keeping the smoke .
concentration constant), the data on the 5% smoke concentration need
to be viewed with some caution. It is conceivable that differences
in the buildup of COg as well as differences in the rate of depletion
of smoke components might influence sustained dose significantly. .
Experiments are currently under way to explore this problem.

8600 2910S

28