CONTROL AND MIXIMIZATION OF TOBACCO SMOKE
DOSE IN CHRONIC ANIMAL STUDIES

Why do we need inhalation studies with whole tobacco smoke,
and what can we hope to accomplish with them? A stated purpose
of the tobacco and health program is to develop a less hazardous
cigarette (Reference 1). The major risks associated with tobacco smoke
are cancer, notably respiratory tract cancer, chronic respiratory
disease(s), and cardiovascular disease(s). While the toxicity and
the harmful effects of individual tobacco smoke components can be
assessed in bioassay systems not involving inhalation exposure,
the full pathogenic potency of as complex a mixture as tobacco
smoke ultimately must be determined by inhalation studies with whole
smoke. This presentation focuses on some crucia] problems related
to dosimetry and maximization of smoke exposure in tobacco smoke
inhalation studies. We will limit our discussion to efforts aimed
at the improvement and development of bioassays for testing the
chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of whole tobacco smoke in smal}
laboratory rodents using passive smoke inhalation techniques.

Methods to Estimate Sustained Dose

Before discussing how to control and maximize the dose of
tobacco smoke delivered to experimental animals, we need to take
stock briefly of the major methods currently used to measure sus-
tained dose and to suggest possible new approaches. It is important
to remember that we will be measuring tobacco smoke components
only, rather than whole tobacco smoke, but hopefully such measure-
ments will be indicative of a class of compounds or a significant
fraction of tobacco smoke. Currently, two main options are avail-
able for measuring or estimating tobacco smoke dose, with perhaps
a third one to be added in the future. The first is to measure
normally occurring tobacco smoke constituents (or their derivatives)
in the body or body fluids of exposed animals. The simplest and
most common example of this approach is determination of COHb. The
second principal approach, developed more recently, is to label
tobacco with chemical or radioactive tracers, then determine the
amount of tracer in the respiratory tract of, the exposed animals.
This method is much more complicated than the former and requires
that one have some knowledge of the fate of the tracer during
pyrolysis, its distribution in the tobacco smoke, its volatility,
etc. Typical examples of this approach are studies with decachloro-
biphenyl] (2), '4c hexadecane (3), and 14c-dotriacontane (4,5). The
advantage of this method is that one can measure dose to the lung
directly (though it may be debatable what fraction of tobacco smoke
the measured quantity represents). The disadvantage is that (at
least with the markers currently in use) a destructive test is re-
quired to determine the amount of tracer in the lungs. A third |
possible alternative is to use depletion of smoke components from
the exposure chamber as a measure of uptake or dose to the animals.
(This approach, if feasible, probably will apply only to static
rather than dynamic exposure conditions.)

24

c 600 290s