THE MEASUREMENTS OF NICOTINE INTRAPUFF DELIVERY

Evon L. Crooks
Dwo Lynm

Research and Development
Bowman Gray Technical Center
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
Winston-Salem North Carolina 27102.

SUMMARY GE

Time resolved measurements of intrapuff nicotine delivery in
mainstream smoke have been performed with a specially designed intrapuff
smoking apparatus (IPSA). The IPSA-filter traversing mechanism collects
mainstream particulates on a rectangular filter pad which moves at a
constant velocity perpendicular to the direction of smoke flow at the mouth
end of the cigarette. Filter pads were assayed by two analytical :
techniques. Standard gas chromatographic (GC) methodology was used to
quantitate nicotine concentration in five equal time segments per puff.” A
second method, using a Berthold TLC- Linear Analyzer, measured total
radioactivity across the pad for 14C-nicotine labelled cigarettes.

Intrapuff nicotine concentrations were determined from measured
puff flow profiles and the collected masses of nicotine on the filters.
GC nicotine concentration measurements correlated well with total
activity from the scanner measurements. Studies carried out with full-
Flavor cigarettes revealed that nicotine concentrations in the smoke vary
significantly during a puff. .- -

This work provides a new technique for studying time-resolved
delivery of mainstream smoke components. It may also be used to elucidate

mechanisms controlling the delivery of nicotine and other mainstream smoke
components.

INTRODUCTION

It has become increasingly important to better understand the

- mechanisms by which smoke components, (especially nicotine) are delivered

to mainstream smoke. To this end, instrumentation was developed to make
time- resolved measurements of mainstream smoke components during

- individual puffs. Central to the function of IPSA is a means of measuring

puff flow- rate profiles accurately. The method for measuring puff profiles
was a modification of that reported by Reynolds (1).

~The absence of these types of measurements in the literature is
testimony to evidence for their difficulty. For example, Ceschini (3)

reported the evolution of gas-vapour phase and total particulate matter

6986 6580S