vacuum-produced a + 2.0-volt output from transducer 2, (V2), and a +
10.0-volt output from transducer 1, (V1). This procedure was followed for
each experiment. ~ :

The flow sensor calibration apparatus is shown in Figure 3. After the
transducers were calibrated, a flow sensor was installed in the apparatus
as illustrated. Flow rate through the system was controlled by a flow
meter available from Custom Electronics System Inc. Volumetric flows of 5
to 50 ml/sec in increments of 5 ml/sec were imposed by vacuum. Voltage
measurements were made for transducers 1 and 2 at each volumetric flow
level. Three multicapillary calibration rods (nominally 114, 154 and 302
mm H20) obtained from Tennessee Eastman Company were used to simulate
the pressure drop range occuring in a burning cigarette. Voltage
readings were acquired for each flow/calibration rod combination. _

Equations (3) and (4) were used to calculate dP and P at each flow
rate. Subsequently the coefficients in Eqn.(2) were determined by multiple
linear regression analysis of the pressure and flow rate data. The results
indicated that the "In(A)" and "B * In(P)" terms in Eqn. (2) did not
contribute significantly to the fit. As a result, Eqn. (2) was simplified
to: a Be

In(F) = k + In(dP). Eqn. (5)
Substituting for dP gives: So.
- nF) =k +C* InfA? + BVI], Eqn. (6)
or equivalently, .
p= éM* TA + B*VI], Eqn. (7)

where k, A’, C and B’ are constant for a given transducer array.

D. Puff Profile Data Acquisition System

Measurement of puff profiles with the flow sensor/transducer system is
illustrated in Figure 1. Only the differential pressure, V1, across the
flow sensor was required. Digital output of the differential pressure was
acquired by the High Speed Recorder option of Asystant+ data- acquisition |
software.The data-acquisition rate was 20.0 Hz and 100 points per channel
were collected. This rate allows readings for 5 seconds to establish a
baseline correction. Data files were stored as an array on the hard disk
of an IBM AT computer. Digital output files were converted to voltages by
selecting the Convert Data File option in the Data Acquisition Menu page.
The software gain was set at 1.0. Digital output conversions were obtained
by setting the minimum and maximum voltage output to 0.0 and 5.0
respectively on the Channel Coefficient Editor page.

Equation (7) was entered into the Functions Option of the Main Menu
and coefficients k, A’, C and B’ were entered into Parameters File.
Flow rates were obtained by solving the equation.

wm
©
oO
or
wo
wo
Oo
~J
np