CALIBRATION

The three transducers (Figure 3) are Validyne DP15 models equipped
with +/- 1.0 PSID measurement diaphrams. The transducers’ pneumatic
connections were made with 1/16 inch o.d. tubings of either plastic or
stainless steel with Swagelok connectors. The transducers’ wiring was
routed to a Validyne MC1 demodulator with 3 independent channels
consisting of a CD19A carrier demodulator (with a common PS238

. power supply). The carrier modules provided independent adjustment
of zero level and signal amplification. The transducer demodulator outputs
were connected directly to the A/D board (Data Translation 2801) via a
connecting board (Data Translation 707).

A calibration apparatus which permitted the generation of varied flow
rates by vacuum through a critical orifice,was assembled as shown in Figure
4. An empirically-determined equation related the differential pressure
across the sensor taps (dP) and mouth end pressure (P) to flow rate (F).
The form of the equation is: - ~

F=A* (apy * (p)°, Eqn. (1)

or -

In(F) = In(A) +B * In(dP) + C * In(P) 5° Eqn. (2)

where A,B and C are constants.

Voltage signals generated by the pressure transducers are
directly proportional to the pressure variables in Eqn. (2).
Therefore, a second set of relationships is required to convert
the voltages into the necessary pressure data; i.e.,

dP = AS 4 Bley] a Eqn. (3)

and

P= BP - A" - B™*V2 , : Eqn. (4)

where BP is barometric pressure, V1] and V2 are measured voltages, and

A’, A" and B’, B" are constants for a given transducer. Since transducers
measure differential pressure only, Eqn. (4) must include the barometric
pressure to obtain the absolute pressure in Eqn. (2).

The system illustrated in Figure 4 was used to determine the
transducer calibration (Eqns. (3) and (4)). First, transducer 2 was
connected to the apparatus and a known vacuum was imposed. Voltage signals
were obtained from transducers 1 and 2 under vacuum. The coefficients in
Eqns. (3) and (4) were then determined by linear regression. The nominal
vacuum produced was approximately 200 mm H20. All transducer arrays were
adjusted so that ambient pressure produced 0.0 +/- 0.02 volts; a 200 mm H20

TL86 6980S