The total volume of each 0.4 sec. segment of a puff was obtained
by extracting a subarray of the flow rate variable and executing the
integration option in the Wave and Matrix Operation page. Equation 8 was
empirically derived to determine the volume in cif for each segment,
(vol/segment),

Vol/Segment = (t/N-1)* Vd, . Eqn. (8)
where t is the duration of each segment in seconds, N-1 is the default

time scale in seconds; and Vd is the integrated volume obtained (by
default) in the integration routine.

Rabe

EXPERIMENT

-Full-flavor cigarettes werg chosen for this study and were conditioned
at 60% relative humidity and 75°F for a minimum of 24 hours. Cigarettes
were weight selected to fall within one half S.D. of the mean of 2000
weighed (selected weight range = 1003 mg. +/- 11.4 mg.). Weight-selected
cigarettes were then pressure-drop selected to fall within one half S.D. of
the mean (pressure-drop selected range = 127.8 mm.H20 +/- 3.3 mm H20 at ,
17.5 cc/sec Flow rate).

The displacement volume of the, smoking machine’ s piston was adjusted
to obtain a volume of about 70.0 cm. This adjustment is required to
compensate for. leaks around the collection pad and produce a smaller puff
‘volume at the cigarette. With the calibrated flow sensor and differential
pressure transducers in place as indicated in Figure 1, a cigarette was
loaded into the positive pressure smoking machine. Puff volumes for a lit
cigarette were obtained with Asystant+ data acquisition software. Filamatic
piston adjustments were made until a total integrated volume. of 35.0 +/-
Icc was achieved. With the flow sensor and cigarette in place, smoking
commences with simultaneous acquisition of puff profile data, and time
resolved collection of smoke particulate within a 2.0 second puff. The flow
sensor was removed after smoking the first cigarette as indicated in Figure
‘5. This procedure reduces the dead volume between the butt end of
the cigarette and the collection pad. A total of five cigarettes ¥ were
smoked to a 28-mm butt length.

The length of the mainstream smoke particulate deposit on the
collection pad was 10.0 cm. Each pad was divided into five, 2.0-cm segments
corresponding to 0.0 - 0.4, 0.4 - 0.8, 0.8 - 1.2, 1.2 -1.6, and 1.6 - 2.0
second time segments during the puff. A specially designed cutter was used
to ensure segment precision. The first segment of each collection pad was
extracted with 10.0 ml aliquots of isopropyl alcohol with 50.0 srl of dilute
internal standard. All remaining segments were each extracted in 25.0 ml
aliquots of isopropyl alcohol with 25.0 wl of stock internal standard. Al}
samples were extracted on a wrist action shaker for 20 minutes, then
sub-sampled into gas chromatographic sampling vials and analysed on a | gas
chromatograph.

ur
9
©
UT
6
Oo
ce
~J
w&