III. Smoking and Nicotine Fixation

14C-nicotine labelled cigarettes were smoked on the IPSA system with
simultaneous collection of smoke particulates and puff profile
measurements. Due to the gradual loss of 14C-nicotine activity from the
filter pad over time, a preventive fixation technique was applied. Filter
pads with smoke particulates were mounted on an aluminum sheet (31 x 17
cm), sprayed with a 0.1% solution of oxalic acid, and dried.

VI. Radioactivity Scanning of Filter Pads

Solvent-free filter pads were scanned for total radioactivity with a
Berthold Linear Analyzer (LB285 equipted with IBM AT and LB2821 detector).
The intrapuff radioactivity profiles obtained were divided into 0.4 second
time segments using the Chroma software supplied with the analyzer.Results
are presented in Table 10. . a ;

RESULTS

Intrapuff nicotine distributions obtained from the IPSA system are
presented in Tables 1 - 8. Each nicotine concentration data point
representsthe average of five experiments with five cigarette per
experiment. Time segments 2, 3 and 4 all fell within 1.16 standard
deviation of the mean. Concentration measurements for time segments 1 and 5
(for all puffs) fell within 1.8 standard deviations of the mean. The higher
standard error observed in time segments 1 and 5 can be explained by Tower
nicotine mass and integrated volume. Figures 6A - 8A represent measured
puff profiles for puffs 2,5 and 7. The profiles exhibited consistent
behavior from puff to puff. Integrated volumes were obtained for each 0.4
second time segment under the puff profile measured. Nicotine mass per
0.4-second time segment was obtained directly from gas chromatograph on a
per cigarette basis. Figures 6B - 8B illustrate the distribution of
nicotine mass during a 2-second puff. Nicotine concentrations (ug/cc) were
calculated from mass delivered and corresponding integrated volume. Figures
6C - 8C illustrate nicotine concentration profiles for puffs 2,5 and 7. It
is evident from the mass distribution data that the second time segment
(0.4 - 0.8 second) exhibits approximately 30% lower nicotine concentration
than the fourth time segment (1.2 - 1.6 seconds) for puffs 1 - 3.. This
suggests that during the first half of these puffs the tobacco rod and
filter are more efficient in removing mainstream particulate. However, as
the puffs progress, removal efficency is reduced resulting in an increase -
of nicotine delivery. Intrapuff deliveries for the second and fourth time -
segments are consistent for puffs 4 - 8. As illustrated, the nicotine
intrapuff distribution is weighted towards the end of the puff. Tables
9-17 represents intrapuff delivery of 14 -C labelled cigarettes.

ISCUSSION

The nicotine concentrations obtained agree well with earlier studies
[2] of intrapuff particulate concentration. The relatively small amount of

GSL86 6980S