(TPM) of cigarette smoke in a single puff. The data indicated that the
concentration of smoke components is significantly higher at the end of the
puff, whereas the TPM was approximately uniform. However, Ceschini’s
experiments might have an inherent error as he took partial puffs to arrive
at conclusions regarding continuous intrapuff. In contrast, the results
presented here were obtained directly from the continuous intrapuff
measurements. -

In this study, the effects of flow on the delivery of mainstream
nicotine during a 2 second puff were demonstrated.

INSTRUMENTATION -
A. INTRAPUFF SMOKING SYSTEM | oO

A system was developed to capture smoke particulates in real time
during an individual puff.The apparatus configuration was such that
near-zero dead volume existed between smoke exiting the cigarette and the
collecting filter pad. This was an important criteria for reducing any loss
in smoke particulates. Figure 1 is a schematic of the IPSA, illustrating
its five interacting components. A 100 cc. piston-type smoking machine
provides the vacuum necessary for puffing. The timer controls the puffing
frequency, and interfaces with the computer for puff initiation. A filter
pad mounted on a translational stage collect smoke particulates as it moves
‘past the mouth end of the cigarette during the puff thus time segregating
the collected TPM. The pad is adjusted to travel a distance of 10 cm at a
velocity of 5 cm/sec. A positive pressure smoking machine allows the
measurement of flow rate and calibration of pressure transducers. -A
Reynolds type (1) flow sensor was inserted immediately between the butt end
of the cigarette and the filter pad to measure puff volume. The flow
sensor is part of the flow-measuring apparatus, which consists of three.
differential pressure transducers attached to a Validyne MC1 demodulator
for signal amplification and demodulation.An IBM AT computer with Asystant+
software from Macmillan Software Company was used for data acquisition.

B. Flow Sensor

Figure 2 illustrates the die-cast low density polyethylene flow
probe.This sensor is 32 mm in length, 8-mm o.d. and 6-mm i.d. The pressure
taps are 8-mm in length with Swagelok threads.A flow restrictor is located
in the center of the tube with a 2-mm diameter hole. At the cigarette end
of the sensor the restrictor is.cone-shaped as indicated. As air flows
through the sensor, a pressure differential across the probe is generated.
The differential produced is proportional to flow rate through the sensor.

A differential pressure transducer system was set up such that one
transducer measures pressure differential across the taps of the flow
sensor, while a second measures absolute pressure. A third transducer was
required to balance signals and reduce oscillation among the sensors.
Readings from the third transducer were not used in measurement.

@L86 6580S