To:

From:

Subject:

PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017 owe 4
. y Y

. ’
- Mr. Joseph F. Cullman 3rd Date: Jahuary 18, Hi

» George Weissman

* Milprint Pulp Contract

The December meeting of the Board of Directors of Philip Morris Incorporated
approved in principle authorization of a pulp contract to be signed by Milprint
subject to clearing up two questions Legal raised. The Corporate Legal Depart~-
ment has raised no further questions about the contract, and after speaking to
each member of the Executive Committee, I have authorized Milprint to enter
final negotiations with The Great Lakes Pulp and Paper Company for the purchase
of 12,000 tons of pulp annually for ten years beginning in 1976.

Currently, Nicolet is paying $265.00 per ton. For purposes of calculation, it
could be assumed that the pulp purchased under the proposed contract will cost
approximately $300.00 per ton.

The Great Lakes Pulp and Paper Company, which is controlled by the Canadian
Pacific Railroad, has been a supplier to Nicolet for seven years. The relation-
ship has been mutually satisfactory and Great Lakes' reputation is excellent.

The Milprint contract is a “take and pay” contract as are the others, and the
financing of the new mill will be based on this paper. The mili will have a
capacity of 300,000 tons annually, 250,000 of which have already been committed

to Milprint, Johnson and Johnson, Bergstrom Paper Company, National Cash Register,
Proctor and Gamble, St. Regis Paper, Nekoosa Edwards, Fox River Paper and Landon
Paper.

The contract price will be the prevailing market price at the time of purchase
and although there is no contract guarantee that the price paid will be the
lowest price available, pulp prices have traditionally been uniform within the
industry. If the mill is not in operation by 1976, we can withdraw from the
contract.

This annual 12,000 tons of pulp could be used in emergencies for flip top box
and soft pack production for the Philip Morris tobacco operations.

Milprint will sign the contract since Nicolet is not a legal corporation. No
guarantee will be required from Philip Morris.

At $300 per ton, this contract could total $36 million.

, \ S
SNS oJ ear wee LS
orge Wayssman ay)

GW: koc S

bees
i

?

4
~
Smee