w

136 Kapur, Glass, Loftus, Alman, and Feller

This report has attempted to chasacterize the data evaluated to date. Large numbers of
analyses are possible; however, only the most meaningful have been carticd out because
of the still incomplete nature of the sample size and in the interests of conserving funds
for computation. Findings will be most meaningful when individual age, dental health and
prosthesis-specific groups contain larger numbers of subjects. For example, saliva
biochemistry wilt become fat more significant when larger numbers of edentulous and
partially edentulous subjects are available. Observed differences in salivary urea levels will
be correlated with blood and physical findings of the parent study. The calcium and
phosphorous [evels of the saliva will be studied im relation to the same parameters in
blood and urine, as wel) as in relation to caries, calculus, periodontal bone loss cn an
age-specific basis. The impairment of senses such as vision and hearing will be evaluated in
relation to orofacial parameters, including loss of teeth, loss of vertical dimension and
temporomandibular joint dysfunction. It is clear that even larger numbers of Ss than
those available today are required for meaningful studies of these complex
interrelationships.

CONCLUSIONS

This research program evaluates oral health, oral diseases and oral functions on 2
cross-sectional and eventually a longiudinal basis in an otherwise healthy population of
males. Comprehensive oral examinations made at intervals of five years will permit for the
first time a detailed description and analysis of the effect of age on oral tissues and
functions in addition to the elucidation of the natural lustory of oral diseases. Samples of
the study population with a known background also wilt be useful in special purpose
surveys.

In addition to descriptive oral findings, patterns of association of these variables with
one another and those of the parent study will be evaluated 10 provide an analytical
aspect of the program in a search for mechanisms fos disease prevention.

Other factors to be evaluated include:

(1) The prevalence and incidence of oral diseases; including dental caries, periodontal
disease, hard and soft tissue lesions and temporomandibular joint pathology in adults.

(2) The interrelationship of various oral diseases and their association with systemic,
psychological and socioeconomic factors 10 be derived from the pasent study. Included
here would be psychological, gastrointestinal and skelctomusculas disturbances.

(3) The associations between tobacco smoking and changes in ora] structures and
functions.

(4) The evaluation of food preferences and their sclation to oral and systemic factors,
including Joss of teeth, prosthetic replacements, psychological and gastroinicstinal
disturbances.

(5) The effect of age on o:al conditions, including changes in salivary composition
associated with age, loss of teeth and various systemic diseases.

(6) A continuing evaluation of the need for and cost of dental treatment at various

* fevels (basic vs. comprehensive, radical vs. conservative),

(7) The actual effect of dental treatment on the arrest of disease and the maintenance

and prolongalion of oral health.
(8) The factors relating 10 the increase in severity of periodontal disease including

tooth loss.

Aging and Human Development, Volume 3, 1972

PUBLICATIONS

10322416

003678