126 Kapur, Glass, Loftus, Alman, and Feller

Measurements and selected psychological tests. In addition, there are included
ophthalmic, audiologic and special physical examinations as well as measurements of
other parameters on sub-samples of the study population. The findings of all
examinations are encoded in computer readable format and are available for
inlerdisciplinary analyses.

The orofacial aspect of the study includes five general series of examinations or
procedures, including:

(1) Interim hedlth history and survey of dietary habits.

(2) Orofacial examinations.

(3) Tests of masticatory function and taste thresholds.

(4) Analyses of whole and parotid saliva and secretion rates.

(5) Other procedures including radiographs, photographs, study models and oral

cytological examinations.

INTERIM HEALTH HISTORY

Episodes of illness, need for treatment or hospitalization and types of dental treatment
requised since the last examination are recorded by the patient on a simple interim
history form. No assessment of genezal health is made as this information is available
from the parent study for evaluation in relation to ora) findings. Dental treatment 1s not
provided as pari of the study, although treatment provided by the subdject’s own dentist is
recorded.

A brief questionnaise concerning food selection habits has been developed, including
an appraisal by the subject concerning his frequency of eating, the taste and difficulty in
chewing the specified foods.

ORO-FACIAL EXAMINATIONS

As considerable detail is required concerning findings of oral examinations, three
optically scanned forms' were devised 1o permit machine processing of the documents of
original data entry. Only positive findings are recorded by making a pencil mark in the
appropriate pre-coded position. (Glass et al., 1969, 4 and d).

The record of examination for teeth, casies, and restorative treatment is shown in
Figure 1. Identification data are coded in the left margin and at the top. For each tooth,
the precoded marking positions are identical, The SUEM positions refer to sound,
unerupted, extracted or mmussing. The OBLMD refer to occlusal, buccal, lingual, mesial and
distal surfaces. Under each of these columns, the position marked F refers to a filling; the
D 1-3 positions refer to estimated depth of decay; and Dx refers to the carious lesion
detected only from radiographs.

The findings of the examination of the periodontium are recorded on the form shown
in Figure 2. Provisions for identification are located in the left margin and at the top.
Under missing repli(aced), the replacement of a missing tooth may be coded as none, not
indicated, fixed or removable. Changes in the position of teeth may be recorded such as
extruded, lingual or buccal version, mesia) or distal dnft and rotation. Arbitrary, ordinal
scales have been devised to score occlusal wear, tooth mobility, amount of calculus
present, pocket depth, gingival changes and oral hygiene. Occlusal interference. food

* Optical Scanning Corporation, Newtown, Pennsylvania

Aging and Human Development, Volume 3, 1972

PUBLICATIONS

10322406

003668