a

132 Kapur, Glass, Loftus, Alman, and Feller

Although no Ss showed signs of acne, attesting to the rigid standards of admission to
the parent study, 20 percent were observed 1¢ show facial scars, At the same time, 19
percent showed “clicking” of the temporo-mandibular joint. ‘The age distributions of
facial scars and “clicking” of the joint were similar, The avéthors have postulated an
association between facial trauma and temporo-mandibular joint dysfunction; this
association will be tested in the next serics of cross-tabulations cartied out. While only 0.4
percent of the Ss acknowledged joint pain, 17 percent demomstrated deviation to the
right or left upon opening the mouth, These data illustwate the significance of
temporo-mandibular joint dysfunction and provide material! for additional detailed
studies of this problem.

Most oral findings of non-dental tissues were negative; nowever, leukoplakia was
relatively common. The location and prevalence of leukoplakia were as follows:

 

 

Place of leukoplakia Percent prevalence
Tongue 14
Floor of mouth 0.4
Palate 49
Buccal mucous membrane 9.2

These conditions will be studied ona continuing basis in a special project and evaluated in
relation 1o the use of tobacco and the habit of cheek chewing.

The distribution by age and presence of teeth is shown in Table 2. No edentulous 5s
were observed under age 35 and only 10 percent in the 35.441 age bracket. However, by
ages 65-74 almost 50 percent of the Ss have at least one edersmtulous jaw. With advancing
age, the ratio of Ss with both jaws edentulous to those with ome jaw edentulous increases.
However, the data in Table 2 fail 1c quaniilate the issue of tteeth Jost due to caries OF
periodontal disease. In addition, extracted teeth constitute a: problern in those patients
with partially edentulous jaws. Only Ss withuut completely eclentulous jaws are included
in the data shown in Table 3. With advancing age, the mean mumbers of extracted teeth
increase steadily. In spite of the fact that the mean numbers of teeth not replaced remains
about conswnt, the mean numbers of teeth replaced by rermovable appliances increases
while those replaced by fixed prosthesis remain about the same, Those teeth not being
replaced are found to be other than third molars. Sunamary statistics here are confusing
due 10 the wide range of values observed, Inspection of tthe frequency distributions
reveals that many Ss with missing teeth do not have repilacements. It is clear that
prosthetic replacements constitute a significant problem involuing finances and manpower
even ina group of Ss selected on the basis of lack of systemic disease. The quality and age
of prosthetic replacements and tissue reaction to them are undier detailed evaluation.

‘The mean decayed, missing (extracted) and filled (D.M.F.) tooth counts are shown by
age in Table 4 for the veterans participatirig in this swadw and for all U. 5. males.
Edeniulous subjects have been excluded for comparability off the two sets of data. The
latter data are detived from the U. S. National Health Surwey. Certain simitatities and

differences are noteworthy. At the outset, mean counts of D.MALF. teeth are higher for the
veterans. This undoubtedly reflects theis location in New Esmgland where dental caries is
more prevalent. However, in later years this difference axppears less pronounced as
periodontal disease assumes more significance due to the lass of teeth. In Table 5, the
data from this study have been recalculated in order to make valid comparisons with the

Aging and Human Development, Volume 32,1972

PUBLICATIONS

10322412

cr

ee

0036 74