~ Beul vIn

dgeng 2 Woman Berelporrint ~~
Bh): vas- 739 fete /970
Cre part)

THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION
LONGITUDINAL STUDY OF
ORAL HEALTH AND
DISEASE

Methodology and Preliminary Findings

Krishan K. Kapur, D.M.D., M.S.; Robert L. Glass, D.M.D., DrPH., Edward R. Loftus,
DM_D.; John E. Alman, M.A.;and Ralph P. Feller, D.M.D.

ABSTRACT-The purpose of the present study is 10 evaluate the distribution,
determinants, changes and inter-relationships observed in oral health oral Pisease and
ora} function from findings of periodic examinations performed at regula: pitervals in a
Population of male vetcrans in pood health at the outset.

The most extensive surveys have been those of the U. S. National Health Survey of the
Public Health Service (NCHS, 1965). These latter, hke most efforts to evaluate health and
disease, are cross-sectional in design. Longitudinal studies of dental interest include those
of growth and development of the cranio-facial structures (Stuart etal., 1959; Moortees,
1959, 1965; Sillman, 1964: Baum. 1950). Except for studies of bone TesoTpiion
associated with complete dentures (Johnson, 1967; Tallgren, 1969), no Jong zange or
large scale longitudinal studies of the orofacial structures have been carried out in an

adult population.

Few comprehensive studies of ora} health have been carried Out in adult populations. |

THE STUDY POPULATION i

The present study is an extension of a parent longitudinal study, the Normative Aging
Study initiated in 1963 at the Veterans Administration Outpatient Clinic in Boston (Bell
et al., 1966). The study population o: cohort consists of some 2,000 healthy males
between 25-75 ycars of age.
The cohort is self-selected in that it consists of volunteers screened to obtain at the
outset subjects that meci specific health criteria, represent wide socio-economic ranges |
and show signs of geographic stability. Healthy subjects were obtained through the 1
following procedures. 4 prescreening phase was carried out by requesting volunteers to
fill out a medical questionnaire, results of which Provided the basis for rejecting subjects
with known diseases. The next Screening operation consisted of examinations of blood |
Pressure, electrocardiograms, bload sugar, pulmonary function and chest radiographs.
- Those passing the latter tests were subjected to a final medical examination including
biochemical, physiological, and sociological parameters. 11 is noteworthy that the subjects
were selected for the parent study without any consideration given to dental health.
The comprehensive series of examinations and tests employed to screen subjects for
inclusion at the outset are fepeated every five years along with anthropometric

Aging sod Heme Development, Volume 3, 1972
Ns

PUBLICATIONS 003667

10322405