w

130 Kapur, Glass, Loftus, Alman, and Feller

performance is calculated by dividing the volume of test food passing through the sieve
by the total volume of food collected. The swallowing threshold is derermined in the
same manner except that the subject is instructed to chew the food wntil he is teady to
swallow it and then expectorate. An assislant records the number of chewing strokes
required to Prepare the food for swallowing, These tests have been validated in previous
studies (Kapur et al., 1964).

Salivary flow rates are determined and samples of whole and parotid saliva are
collected under standard conditions (Chauncey and Shannon, 1960; Kapur et al., 1967).
Standard biochemical tests are used for the analysis of levels of electrolyte and
non-electrolyte components.

Photographs and extra and intra-oral radiographs are taken under standard conditions.
Tracings and measurements are made to evaluate the anthropometry of cranio-facial
structures. Oral smears from different areas are used to study cytological changes.

DATA ANALYSIS

The findings of interim health histories, secotds of oro-facial examinations, saliva
analyses and masticatory performance tests have been punched into machine record cards
and verified. The optically scanned records of oral examination, periodontium and
prosthesis evaluation have been processed by machine and encoded data punched into
cards. In order to be certain that all marks were picked up by machine, counts were made
of the marks on the examination records. Computer programs were written to count the
marks picked up by machine and coded into the cards. The two counts were compared
and in the case of discrepancies, the ofiginal record was consulted and the corresponding
punch card corrected. All data cards were edited by computer and/or by hand for
accuracy,

The cards frorn the vatious activities were then collated together in the same sequence,
checked for completeness and sequence and then encoded into magnetic tape. A special
computer progidm was written to recode some of the data in the record set and
summarize certaih information for statistical analyses.

PRELIMINARY FINDINGS

A total of 575 Ss have been examined to date, although the present report describes
findings from only 284. This preliminary analysis was made in order to develop and
evaluate the system used for editing and analysis. As the present sesies of exarminations
are still part of the first cycle, the available data are only cross-sectional, Ulimately,

longitudinal analyses will be possible.
The age distribution of the subjects described in this report is shown in Table 1. These

categories were selected in Order to make the findings compatible with those of the US.
National Health Survey. As in the parent study, only a few patients have been examined
from the youngest age group. Efforts re being intensified in order to recruit younger
subjects. The older age groups will take case of themselves as the population ages.

According to the annual iealth history, 2] percent have had sickness since joining the
parent study, 7) percent have seen a physician and 23 percent have been hospitalized.
The positive responses are spread fairly evenly throughout all age groups and are not
disproportionate in the older age groups.

Aging and Hutoan Development, Volume 3, 2972

PUBLICATIONS

10322410

co

003672