Fe receptors for al] immunoglobulin classes are members of the immunoglobulin gene
superfamily (25). They are expressed on certain B and 7 lymphocytes, macrophages, NK cells
and polymorphonuclear leukocytes. On macrophages, among other functions, FcR mediate
endocytosis of immune complexes and phagocytosis <f IgG bound antigenic particles
(26,27,28). Furthermore, FcyR plays an important role in antibody-dependent cell mediated
cytotoxicity (ADCC)(29). To date three distinct murine fcyR have been identified. The best
characterized is the mouse macrophage-lymphocyte Fc receptor for IgGl or TgG2b.A rat mab,
designated 2.462, against this Fe receptor has been developed (28),

Preliminary Results. We have demonstrated (4,5) molecular mimicry between the FcyR and
the MHV-S peplomer protein. The evidence is as follows

1. Monoclonal or polyclonal mouse, rat or rabbit IsGs, and the rat 2.462 anti-mouse
FcoyR mab immunoprecipitated from MHV infected cells a po’ ypeptide with a molecular mass (180
kD) identical to that immunoprecipitated by anti-S antibudies. Purified F(ab’), fragments
of the 2.4G2 anti-mouse FeyR mab similarly immunoprecipitated the 180 kD polypeptide.
Similar results were obtained with three different strains of MHV and cells of three
different types. F(ab’), fragments of rabbit IgG did not immunoprecipitate any polypeptide
chains. None of these antibodies immunoprecipitated any proteins from uninfected cells(4,5).

2. Several experiments demonstrated that the protein immunoprecipitated by the 2.462
anti-mouse FcyR mab from MHV infected cells is the S$ glycoprotein: (a) Partial proteolytic
maps obtained by S. aureus V-8 protease treatment of the 180 kD proteins immunoprecipitated
from infected cells either by the 2.4G2 anti-mouse f2yR mab or the anti-S mab were
identical. (b) Sequential immunoprecipitation experimenss from MHV-infected cells revealed
that the same polypeptide chain was recognized by the two mabs. (c) Actinomycin D did not
influence the induction and expression of the 180 kD chain that was immunoprecipitated by
the 2.4G2 anti-mouse FcyR mab, demonstrating that this protein is of viral origin (4,5).

3. A goat anti-S serum, but not normal goat serum, the 2.4G2 anti-mouse FeyR mab and
unrelated rat and mouse mabs, immunoprecipitated a 75-7 &D molecule from uninfected WEHI-
3 cells, an FeyR-bearing cell line (4,5).

4. A gaat anti-S serum, the 2.462 anti-mouse FeyR rab, monoclonal rat IgG2b and rabbit
IgG, tmmunoprecipitated an identical 165 kDa polypeptide corresponding to recombinant S$
protein, which we expressed using vaccinia virus vector system, in cells murine, rabbit and
human origin. Since the 2.4G2 anti-mouse FcyR mab does not react with rabbit or human FoyR,
these results demonstrate beyond doubt the presence of an Fe binding epitope on S$
(manuscript in Appendix).

5. MHV-JHM-infected cells, but not control uninfected cells, form rosettes with anti-
sheep red blood cell (SRBC) antibody-coated SRBC (see Appendix).

6. The 2.462 anti-FcyR mab neutralizes MHV-JHM and irhibits MHV 5S induced cell fusion.
Multiple attempts to select mutants resistant to neutralization with the 2.4¢2 anti-FeyR
mab were unsuccessful (manuscript in Appendix), suggesting that the sequences involved in
the molecular mimicry of the FeyR are essential for infectivity. This is also supported by
our previous observations that the Fc binding activity of S is conserved among several
strains of MHV and MHV-JHM mutants that we examined (see Appendix).

7. Computer analysis of the MHV-JHM S peplomer and the FeyR protein seguences using
the Dayhoff Align program identified three short domains (6-13 aminoacids) of sequence
similarity. Monte Carlo analysis of two af these nearly adjacent domains spanning amino
acid residues 457 to 506 for S and residues 108 to 134 for the FcyR indicated that this
sequence similarity for MHV-JHM S and FeyR is significay: (Monte Carlo score=7.35) (4}.

Objectives and Specific Aims: The hypothesis to te tested is whether the molecular
mimicry between MHV-S peplomer protein and Fe receptor plays a role in the pathogenesis
of MHV and the induction of autoimmune disease. Our objective is to identify the structural
basis of this molecular mimicry and determine whether it plays a role in the pathogenesis
of MHV. Our specific aims are:

40040833