P.I.: Emilia Oleszak, Ph.D.
MOLECULAR MIMICRY BETWEEN Fc GAMMA RECEPTOR AND MOUSE HEPATITIS VIRUS PEPLOMER PROTEIN

Background. Molecular mimicry is defined as the presence of epitopes, either linear
or conformational, shared between viral and host antigens (1) and may play a role in the
pathogenesis of viral infections and the induction of autoimmune diseases. Several homolo-
gous peptides between human myelin basic protein (MBP) and viral proteins have been idanti-
fied including adenovirus, influenza, measles, canine distemper and Epstein-Barr viruses(2).
Molecular mimicry of a peptide comprised of 8 amino acids of MBP by Hepatitis B polymerase
(HBP) can cause autoimmune disease (3). Rabbits injected with this octapeptide developed
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE)(3). We have demonstrated (4,5) molecular
mimicry between Fc gamma receptor (FcyR) and the peplomer protein S (formerly E2) of the
Mouse Hepatitis Virus (MHV}.

MHV strain JHM (MHV-JHM), a member of the Coronavirus family, experimentally produces
several diseases in mice and rats, depending on the dose and route of inoculation and the
age and strain of the infected animals (7-10). MHV-JHM is highly neurotropic (6). Infection
of susceptible mice causes fatal encephalomyelitis characterized by destruction of CNS
neurons with prominent demyelination. Mice surviving encephalitis (5-10% of those infected)
subsequently develop a persistent, demyelinating disease. The virus was found to persist
in the nervous system and the demyelinating process is associated with primary infection
of oligodendrocytes (7}. However, a relapsing-remitting demyelinating disease, reminiscent
of multiple sclerosis has been reported (8). Furthermore, infection of rats or mice with
MHV-JHM results in lymphocyte sensitization against MBP (9). Adoptive transfer of these
lymphocytes after in vitro restimulation with MBP results in EAE. These results suggest
that during MHV infection primary demyelination occurs by direct lysis of oligodendrocytes
followed by induction of autoimmune response. Thus, this virus provides an excellent system
for the study of the molecular basis of virus-induced demyelinating disease.

Both humoral and cellular immune responses have been implicated in protection from MHV
infection. Anti-MHV-JHM antibodies prevent death from MHV-JHM infection, but they do not
suppress viral replication in CNS (10,11). Furthermore, in the presence of antibodies MHV-
JHM replicates mainly in oligodendrocytes but not in neurons (10). Delayed-type hypersensi-
tivity ¥ cell clones also protects mice against lethal infection with MHV-JHM although, in
agreement with the findings with antibodies, they do not inhibit virus replication in CNS
(12). Additionally, cytotoxic T cells (13), cytolytic B cells (14,15) and NK cells (16)
exhibit cytotoxic activity against MHV-JHM-infected cells. Recently, it has been reported
that clearance of MHV-JHM from CNS requires both CD4* and CD8* cells (17).

The S peplomer protein is encoded by MHV mRNA 3 and is synthesized on ribosomes (18,19)
as an 120 kD polypeptide.It is cotranstationally glycosylated to a 150 kD $ precursor which
is subsequently further glycosylated to the 180 kD species. Two forms of the S protein are
present on the surface of the virion, the 180 kD and its two non-identical cleaved products
90A kD and 908 kD. S is responsible for attachment of the virus to the host cell, MHV-
induced cell fusion, and for eliciting neutralizing antibodies (20,21). Therefore, the
peplomer S protein plays a central role in the outcome of MHV infections. We have
demonstrated molecular mimicry between FcyR and the peplomer protein S of MHV (4,5).

Infection with herpes virus (HSV-1) resulted in the expression on the cell surface of
molecules with Fe binding ability (22,23). The IgG Fc-binding receptors induced by HS¥-1]
are formed by a complex of viral glycoproteins g& and gl (g70). Recently it has been
reported (24) that HSV-1 FcR has a novel function: it participates in antibody bipolar
bridging. This has been described as the binding of a single anti-viral IgG molecule by its
Fab end to a viral epitope and by its Fc end to an Fe receptor. It was demonstrated (24)
that bipolar bridging of immune IgG protects the virus from antibody and complement-
dependent neutralization and, therefore, offers a survival advantage to the virus.

40040832