Al Gonzalez discussed top dressings with subliminal menthol for a WKS
prototype and had the following reservations:

- loss of such low-level menthol before product reaches consumers
- differing FFNM consumer sensitivities to menthol; slightest "cool-
ing effect" noted by some FFNM smokers could be detrimental

Al noted that a method for analysis of low levels of menthol in smoke
was available in Analytical Methods Division, but is not routine. He
is willing to investigate subliminal menthol subject if Brands Team
feels it worthwhile.

Chuck Rix will be examining the smoke chemistry of WKS prototypes to
which varying amounts of TEG have been added to the tobacco, not to
exceed the level currently found on Marlboro KS. He will be primarily
interested in the relationship between tobacco and smoke TEG, at
present.

The new design for use of the Walker panels for specific variable
testing was discussed. The first study, a screening to rank the im-
portance of casing/humectant variables in terms of consumer acceptance
and attribute ratings, was outlined and proposed variables and design
options were discussed. The Applied Team recommended the testing of
as many variables as possible in the same design and the consideration
of some additional variables -- sucrose, hi-fructose corn syrup, fruc-
tose, and burley drying temperature. (Variables already discussed
ineluded: corn syrup, invert sugar, licorice, cocoa, glycerin, pro-~
pylene glycol, and molasses.) Dick Wolfe will recommend testing
levels for the variables chosen and will check feasibility of making
all design combinations.

Alan Norman and Lynn Dube are working with R. MeCann of MDD to elicit
consumer and analytical data correlations for specific subgroups of
the total FFNM smoker population. NFO and analytical data for WINS-
TON, CAMEL, and Marlboro products tested in about the last three years
are computerized and can easily be retabulated for different de-
mographiec groups, such as 18-34 year-old male competitive smokers. We
will be looking for ways to apply correlations directly to prototype
development.

Recently, Marlboro's 'tar' has risen to 19 mg and has stabilized at an
average of about 18 mg. There is nothing obvious in the analytical
data (blend, configuration, smoke) that we routinely collect that will
account for this 'tar' increase. Members of the Applied Team are cur-
rently investigating how PM might be effecting this change. Ideas
include: careful weight-of-tobaeco checks, dpf, blend picking (com-
parison to earlier pickings), in-house FTC 'tar' procedure, filter
draft change, circumference change, standard deviations for air dilu-
tion checks, nicotine on sheet, cigarette paper/paper additives analy-
Sis, and TEG effect.

The Applied Team was updated on the status of the Marlboro QDA panel
and given a copy of the newly-developed ballot for information. It is
generally considered that this panel is long overdue.

aze6 tnhos