Gy University of Colorado Health Sciences Center

Department of Pediatrics
School of Medicine
Pediatric Pulmonary Section

© The Children’s Hospital Affiliated with The Children’s Hospital
1056 E. 19th Avenue
Box B-395
Denver. Colorado 80218
(303) 837-2522
Fax (303) 837-2095 RESPIRATORY HEALTH EFFECTS
OF PASSIVE SMOKING ON .
CHILDREN
Jeffrey S. Wagener, M.D. 21 July 1992

Associate Professor of Pediatrics

University of Colorado Medical School
Advisor, Coalition on Smoking OR Health and
Asthma Education Technical Advisory Group
American Lung Association

Introduction

Nearly 10,000,000 children less than five years of age living in: the United
States are exposed involuntarily to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) at home.t
@ Twenty-five percent of pregnant women continue to smoke throughout their .
pregnancy. Although the overall rate of smoking in U.S. society has been decreasing
during the two and one-half decades since the Surgeon General's report on the
adverse effects of tobacco, the exposure risk to young children, particularly those living
in low income or black families, remains at 50-60 percent. ee |

Involuntary exposure to ETS affects children in three different ways. First, pre-
natal exposure potentially can have a marked impact on total body development
including lung, brain, and size development. Additionally, premature delivery and
spontaneous abortion are related to maternal smoking. Second, post-natally the
growing child may have effects of ETS which impact on the heart, lungs, immune
system, ears, brain, and even survival itself. Third, and possibly most important,
childhood exposure to ETS impacts on the child's decision to engage in active
smoking and other self-injurious medical behaviors 2 which most likely will continue
into adulthood and will compound the effects of perinatal ETS exposure.

Non-Respiratory Effects

The potentially injurious effects of ETS on a child's health are both non-
respiratory and respiratory. Although the recently described correlation between ETS |
and blood cholesterol in children is significant 3, the non-respiratory effect that may be

© most important is the relationship between ETS and sudden infant death syndromes -
or SIDS - because mortality from SIDS during childhood is potentially preventible.

£O9T ETSOS

The University of Colorado is an equal opportunity ¢ affirmative action employer