oe

Unfortunately, the actual cause of SIDS is unknown and thus a plausible biologic

mechanism for how ETS is related to SIDS is not available. It is yet to be determined

whether prenatal effects, such as changing ventilatory drive in the fetus, or postnatal ©
effects, such as increases in non-specific air pollution, are responsible for this

relationship between ETS and SIDS. In the absence of a blologic mechanism, it is
inappropriate to speculate on the impact of smoking cessation on the occurrence risk

of SIDS. The inclusion of this topic is appropriate, however, since an effect on the.

respiratory system by ETS is one possible confounding mechanism for SIDS.

Respiratory Effects

Most studies about the effects of involuntary ETS exposure in childhood have
been directed toward potential respiratory system injury. Strong evidence currently
exists relating ETS with: 1) abnormal lung development following prenatal exposure,
2) increased non-specific airway hyperresponsiveness in children raised in a smoking
environment, 3) an increased frequency of lower respiratory Infections (LRis) in _
infants living with caregivers who smoke, 4) an increased risk of severe asthma and
frequent acute asthma episodes in children with asthma who live in a household
where someone smokes, and 5) lower lung function throughout childhood in children -
of smoking families compared with non-smoking families. a

Suggestive evidence relating ETS to other respiratory system abnormalities
and disease includes: 1) a higher risk of atopy in ETS exposed children, 2) more
acute and chronic ear disease in ETS exposed children, 3) a higher rate of chronic ©
cough, phlegm, and wheezing in children involuntarily exposed to ETS, and 4) a
higher rate of developing physician diagnosed asthma in children with parents who

smoke. | |
Blological Effects

While it is plausible that involuntary exposure to ETS produces similar effects to
active smoking, several differences in exposure and smoke constituents exist.

The quantity of smoke components inhaled is less in the ETS exposed
individual during an acute exposure. However, the length of potential exposure can
be long if the exposed individual remains in a relatively enclosed environment,
potentially explaining the higher risk of ETS in winter months. Almost all
epidemiologic studies involving children have failed to quantify the actual ETS |
exposure. This weakness is reduced by the fact that numerous studies have
demonstrated that relative ETS exposure (i.e. one vs. two smoking parents or primary
vs. secondary caregiver actively smokes) results in relative impact with the higher
ETS exposure having a greater negative impact. ‘This principle is best illustrated in the
prospective study by Wright and coworkers® which suggests that children with a
mother who smoked had fewer lower respiratory infections if they attended a non-
smoking day care center than children who remained at home with their smoking
mother. .

FO9T ETRQ¢5