increased Cough, Phlegm, and Wheezing

Children exposed to chronic ETS have more cough and phiegm production
based on parental questionnaires than do unexposed children. This is particularly
true for preschool children where the ETS exposure is likely to be higher than in
children attending school. The greatest difficulty with these studies is the effect of
selective recall by parents who are either more attuned to symptoms, or who have
become "immune" to the child's chronic symptoms. Additionally, signs such as
wheezing are often variably interpreted by parents, thus leading to results with such |
varying risk predictions. The similarity of these symptoms with those experienced by
adults who actively smoke, however, can be explained by a wall understood
mechanism. :

Increased Incidence of Asthma

Children who are exposed to a relatively high amount of ETS based on the
number of cigarettes smoked in the house appear to have an increased incidence of
asthma. Other indoor air pollutants, as well as the fact that the definition of asthma has
changed over the years, apparently confound this effect. Since currently bronchial
hyperresponsiveness is a diagnostic cue with patients who have a history of cough,
ETS effects may cause the physician to misdiagnose the cue. This would result in the
over-diagnosis of “asthma” in patients suffering from the side-effects of an.
environmental toxin. Costly medical therapy would be likely initiated when removal of
the toxin might delete symptoms and reverse hyperactivity. =

Risk of Smoking

One of the greatest risks of ETS, as mentiohed earlier, is the risk of children
exposed to ETS eventually becoming active smokers. The impact of educational
programs has not been addressed. The potential for reversing the risk of active —
smoking in children of smoking parents by changing parent activity or attitude needs to
be addressed. Finally, while it is accepted that there is a risk of children exposed to
ETS becoming active smokers (thus confounding epidemiologic studies of the biologic
effects of ETS), the actual rate of children following in their parents “footsteps”, and .
whether this rate is Increasing or decreasing is not known.

 

S@9T €T8es