Mainstream smoke and ETS vary in the concentration of various constituents as
well as in particle size. Given the fact that a child has different airway geometry, the
impact of these different particle sizes may alter the presentation of different changes
induced by tobacco smoke. Again, there is a paucity of data quantifying exposure.é

Abnormal Lung Development

The difference in smoke constituent exposure is even more dramatic when
prenatal exposure is considered. In the case of prenatal exposure, the effect could be
a direct effect from a toxin on the developing fetus, an effect of.a toxin on the mothers
support of the fetus (i.e. nicotine reducing uterine blood flow), or a side effect of the
mother's altered physiology (i.e. elevations of maternal CO2 resulting in Increased fetal
breathing and altered lung elasticity).7. The majority of animal and human physiologic
studies following prenatal tobacco smoke exposure are consistent with this last
mechanism.

Bronchial Hyperresponsiveness

Several studies demonstrate that parental smoking enhances bronchial
hyperresponsiveness in older children. The mechanism for this is unknown but could
include toxic effects on the airway, induction of an immunologic mediator, or genetic or
developmental causes. The lower doses of ETS required to induce bronchial
hyperresponsiveness in children are likely related to the variations in responsiveness
that come with age. In studies by Martin and coworkers, children do not seem to follow
a course of self-selection whereby more sensitive individuals avoid smoking when
they get older.8 -

Lower Respiratory Infections

Extensive literature exists supporting the relationship between ETS and LRis in
young children. A relative dose effect has been demonstrated In numerous studies in
several different countries. Confounding variables have been well defined, and both
prospective and questionnaire studies have shown similar results with similar risk
factors. The exact mechanism for this effect is not known, but may be related to the
same factors which influence airway hyperresponsiveness. Genetic predisposition
has not been well studied, and the effects of prenatal exposure have not been able to
be separated from postnatal exposure. Since this correlation of ETS with LRI is most
noticeable during the first six months of life, an immunologic or perinatal etiology must

be highly suspected. This time period may also occur since the infant is more likely to

be in a relatively fixed, enclosed environment, thus resulting in potentially higher ETS
exposure.

 

LO9T ET8OAS