Asthma Worsening

Bronchial responsiveness is more prevalent in children with asthma who are
also exposed chronically to ETS. Emergency care for acute exacerbations of asthma
are likewise increased for children with smoking mothers. Although the mechanisms
for this worsening in symptoms is not known, the chronic exposure to a know irritant
and potentiator of bronchial hyperresponsiveness, similar to a chronic allergen
exposure in an allergic child, is most likely. : : Do .

Lower Lung Function

Multiple investigators, using different study designs, have shown a relationship
between ETS exposure and reductions in lung function. Unlike infant studies that
suggest altered lung volumes and compliance, studies in older children suggest _ .
altered airway dynamics, similar to those seen in adults who smoke. The greatest
difficulty in assessing these studies is trying to factor out the potential that many of the
children raised in smoking families will also be tobacco smokers. Lebowitz and
colleagues? pointed out in their longitudinal study that there was a significant
interaction between subjects’ smoking and parental airway obstructive disease
caused by tobacco smoking. Although this is most likely an environmental effect, in
that children follow the example of their parents, a potential genetic predisposition to
smoking and its effects has not been well evaluated as a confounding variable.

Higher Risk of Atopy

Children of smoking parents are more likely to be atopic than children of non-
smoking parents based on studies in both the U.S. and Italy. Unlike airway
hyperresponsiveness, there is less convincing data of a dose effect, and prenatal
exposure has not been separated from post-natal. It is not known whether ETS is a
non-specific stimulator of IgE or whether ETS is selectively stimulating a tobacco
smoke toxin specific IgE. Finally, the persistance of this altered atopy.into adulthood is
not known, and may disappear over time, with or without continued exposure.

increased Middie Ear Disease

The increased prevalence of middie ear effusion attributable to ETS is difficult to
determine based on the numerous studies with varying results and markedly different
study design. Children who are scheduled for ear surgery are a highly selected group,
as are children who snore. In longitudinal evaluation, the relationship between ETS
and middle ear disease appears to disappear after the first year, yet other investigators
report a higher correlation with increasing age. Finally, whether there is an
abnormality related to the ear, or whether there is an altered risk of upper respiratory
infection, needs to be better defined before a correlation should be assumed.

9@9T ETgQ5