-Y WRF ¢ -{fA
. /* Lot ey PP NEH ER TVA
/-o AYN CONHULNTIAL cot 7

Cyr aed - crt

Gy LY
January 30, ipo2 ra .
CH : St (~

TO: Mr. £. J. Fackelman
FROM: W. R. Penick
SUBJECT: MARC INBOUND 800# COST REDUCTION IMPACT

 

MARC’s toll-free cost reduction will impact two of our operational areas:
Smoker Recruitment and Product Research. Savings in the 1991 Product Research
projects would have totaled $180,000 with MARC’s new toll-free cost. This
represents an 8% reduction in their total fieldwork costs. For the smoker
recruitment area, the savings are negligible as MARC’s new rate is slightly
lower than what we were paying in 1991; and the use of the toll-free operation
has been increased significantly with changes in our recruitment document
design.

Coincidentally, but unrelated to MARC’s inbound cost reduction, Tracker is
reducing the cost we were paying for the diary panel recruitment tag-on. This
cost reduction will provide a $235m cost avoidance in 1992 and is explained
below.

. $46m was spent with TRACKER in ‘91 for diary panel recruitment.
On a cost/complete basis, this cost was more than what we paid
MARC for smoker recruiting through SRMS. When questioned about
this discrepancy, MARC attributed this cost difference to the
different markups each group in MARC used. MARC has standardized
this markup, and the price was reduced to $23m.

. Instead of reducing the cost of Tracker by $23m, we asked TRACKER
to use this money to recruit as many smokers as possible due to
the low cost/complete with the new price. This has resulted in
doubling the number of smokers recruited.

. We also made a procedural change in how these smokers are used.
Instead of putting these smokers directly into the diary panel,
the smokers will now be placed in the SRMS and allocated where
they can provide the greatest benefit. For example, an 18-24 year
old Marlboro smoker to a CAMEL product test. This will allow us
to maximize savings for the company ($235m estimated in 1992)
through the most efficient allocation of resources.

If you have any further questions, please call.
“traO

W. R. Penick
Business Information Analysis Department

WRP/ jrw

9T9S IbEeTs

cc: Dr. J. L. Gemma Mr. H. R. Rodgers