WINSTON, NASCAR HAVE GROWN TOGETHER

The 1995 season marks the 25th year of involvement in NASCAR for R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co. and its flagship Winston brand. For a quarter of a century,
NASCAR and Winston have joined to form one of the most successful marketing
ventures in the history of sports sponsorships.

Since RJR and Winston began sponsoring the Winston Cup Series in 1971, the
growth of NASCAR racing has been nothing short of sensational.

"We are very excited to be celebrating our Silver Anniversary in NASCAR
Winston Cup racing," says T. Wayne Robertson, the president of RJR's Sports
Marketing Enterprises. "We believe this program to be one of the finest in any
marketing campaign, and we're very proud of the contributions we have been able to
make to the sport,” Robertson says. "We thank the competitors for their acceptance of
our role in racing and the fans for their continued support of our products."

During those 25 years, the level of competition has skyrocketed. Only a handful
of teams were capable of victory during NASCAR's formative years. Today, almost any
driver in the field has what it takes to find victory in NASCAR Winston Cup racing.

In 1971, Winston established the first point fund for competitors — $100,000.
Richard Petty claimed the champion's $40,000 portion at the Plaza Hotel in Daytona
Beach, Fla.

The Winston Cup point fund has grown by leaps and bounds in the 25 seasons
hence. At the 1995 NASCAR Winston Cup Awards banquet in the Grand Ballroom of
the storied Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, Winston will distribute $3.5 million — a $500,000
increase over 1994 — to 25 drivers and teams. The substantial increase shows how
dedicated Winston is to the great sport of NASCAR Winston Cup racing.

Since its involvement began, Winston has pumped more than $50 million into
competitors’ bank accounts — through point funds, special competitions and individual
races sponsored by Reynolds Tobacco.

From the 1995 point fund, $1.3 million will go to the Winston Cup champion. For
the past two seasons, that champion has been Dale Eamhardt. "The Intimidator," as
he is known to many, tied the great Richard Petty's mark last year by claiming his
seventh Winston Cup title, a mark many thought never would be equaled. Eamhardt
never has won three straight Winston Cup championships, an accomplishment he will
be seeking this season.

If a competition can be judged by its champions, Petty's and Eamhardt's
presence at the top of the list speaks volumes for Winston Cup racing.

The 1995 season marks the debut of the Winston Select Bonus Program.
Through this $200,000 competition, a driver will receive $100,000 for leading the
Winston Cup points standings following the Winston Select 500 at Talladega, Ala., in
April and $100,000 for leading the standings following the Brickyard 400 at Indianapolis
in August.

z9e¢ SO9TS