The Winston Select 500 at Talladega is one of several Winston Cup races that
Reynolds Tobacco has sponsored through the years.

Additionally, Winston provides an overall promotional program that ranges from
point-of-sale premiums to print and billboard media purchases to help promote the
growth of NASCAR racing.

Winston provides additional bonus programs to the drivers. In 1985, Winston
inaugurated the Winston Million payoff for anyone who could win three of the circuit's
four biggest races ~ the Daytona 500, the Winston 500, the Coca-Cola 600 and the
Southern 500. A $100,000 "consolation" bonus is awarded to the first driver who can
win two of the crown jewel events.

Bill Elliott claimed the moniker "Million Dollar Bill" when he earned the $1 million
check the first year of the program's existence. Although no other driver has matched
Elliott's feat since the inception of the Winston Million, Darrell Waltrip, Dale Earnhardt,
Harry Gant and Davey Allison have all claimed the $100,000 bonus.

The Winston Select, NASCAR's version of an “all-star” race, came into being in
1985, as well, matching the most recent winners in a special non-points competition
that quickly caught the imagination of race fans.

In 1992, Charlotte Motor Speedway lit up The Winston in a bold and
unprecedented step that took fan participation and excitement to a new level. It was
dubbed by many as the most spectacular event in NASCAR history.

When Winston began sponsorship of NASCAR's premier series in 1971, it also
assumed sponsorship of the NASCAR Winston Racing Series and the Winston West
programs. The Winston Racing Series has grown to include roughly 100 weekly race
tracks across the country with a point system to determine eight regional champions
and an overall national titlist. Winston's total point-fund contributions to these series
reach approximately three-quarters of a million dollars.

Winston's involvement with other forms of motorsport include the sponsorship of

the NASCAR Winston Modified Racing Series and the National Hot Rod Association's
Winston Drag Racing Series.

Reynolds Tobacco, through its Camel brand, also sponsors the Smokin’ Joe's
Racing team, which includes one entry in Winston Cup, two in NHRA Winston Drag

Racing, one in Unlimited Hydroplane racing and three in AMA (motorcycle) road racing.

e9ez SsogTs