FF Principal investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middle}: Khew-Voon Chin, Ph.D.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

POSITION TITLE

 

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education. such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.}

YEAR
CONFERRED

   
 

  

  

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION DEGREE FIELD OF STUDY

   
 
 

    
    

   
    
    

  
    
  

B.A.
Ph.D.
Postdoc.

1983
1988
1988-1991

Wittenberg University, Springfield, OH
Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ
National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD

Biology & Chemistry
Pharmacology
Molecular Biology

  

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Conctuding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically wiil inciucle ait individuals with doctoral or other protessionai degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate levei provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. include present membership on
any Federal Government public aavisory committee. List. in chronological order. the titles, all authors, and compiete references to all publications during the
past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Employment and Experience:

1987, Spring Lectured in Topics in Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology - Methods in
Pharmacology

1987, Fall | Lectured in Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology - A Symposium for Advanced
Undergraduates

1988-1990 — Post-doctoral Fellow, Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

1980-1991 — Post-dostoral Fellow, Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

1991 Visiting Associate, Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

1991-Present Assistant Professor, Genetics Centers, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences,
The University of Texas, Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas.

Awards:

1980-1983 Wittenberg University Foreign Student Grant

1986-1987 Ciba-Geigy Predoctoral Fellowship

1988-1991 — Forgaty International Fellowship

Memberships in Professional Societies:

1989-present American Association for the Advancement of Science (Member)
1989-present American Society for Microbiology (Member)

1991-Present American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (Member)
1991-Present American Association for Cancer Research (Member)

PHS 398 (Rav. 9/91} (Form Page 6) Page FF