ee a Os ow wn ee oo

1990 CROP

JAN. 5, 1990 ~ A meeting. was held in Winston-Salem with Mr. W. K.
reer, Or. S$. Saunders and m self at which the Situation was

discussed in detail}, Analyses from the 1988 and prev tous crops

were reviewed, and a general approach to combating the problem in

the coming ana future Crops was discussed. r.

that he be kept fu ly advised of our progress in this campaign.

JAN. 11, 1990 - 7 met with Mr. R. English Director of Im orted
Leaf, at pM Richmond. We digcussed’ the Brob lem in general nd
PM's position and policy og genn ing this matter. I was fold that
PM was certainly concerned about the {ssue and that 4 Socotab
_ would take the ‘lead eng genizing & campaign in Turkey and t
Other Orienta] PEpduc ing ountriés, PM would offer their ful
vocal Support in these e forts.

JAN. 19, 1990-4 meeting was held with the PM and BAT Orienta]
9 mi $ on and to outline a
campaign oO attack this issue in the coming 1990 crop, It was
Cided to proceed a ong the same linés as our previous y
successful 1988 crop campaign against. the misuse of Endosulfan

(YAN. 22, 1990 ~'A meeting was held with the Board of Directors of |

the Aegean Vobacco Exporters Association. e probiem was
discussed tn deta »_ Possible consequences to the To acco trade
were emphasized, and the general outline for action decided at
the above meeting was explained. The full support” and
cooperation of the assocfation was assured.

JAN,
phe T

phe tate Monopoly (TEKEL) General Management Staf

. Ozden - Chairman and General Manager. |
agDITi - Manager, tose Toten te. nme rctat Section
apan - Manager. leat Tobacco Research and Bustin Control

Accompanying me at this meeting were:

ener ~ President, Aegean Tobacco Exporters’ Assoctation
» PR Izmir a,

r. £. Qz
Mr. D. agey ~- Area Manager
Mr. J. Downie - Area Manager, BAT Izmir

Here again the problem was aiggussed, in detail and the serfous
potent al Fonsequences to Turkis obacco eaports was emphasized,
he general outline of a campaign or the 1990 ; d
upon with areas of Eeepons ib ity clearly defined. Mr. Ozden
appropriate manegereecorgive Eee campaign’ their tult sucees, ene
a r
cooperation and to report directiy” te him on the evforts and
progress, - 7 a
-FEB, 26, 1990 - A ques jonnaire was drawn up by this ffice in
order to conduct a general saneay of the farmer’ i the Aege
rowing areas (see attachment 1). The purpose of this survey was
£0 assess tendencies in the usage of all the various agricu cura
chemicais in Turkish tobacco Cultivation, _ te of ‘th
survey was reviewed and edited by the Board of Dp rectors of The
Aegean To acco Exporters! |, Cc

cen oe yzed’ inthe previous crop and shown to be.
high or low end of the residue range were specifical

Greer requested

2h, 1990 rehymeeting was held with the following members: of
u

an.

bS@S 8OITS