OP ew ae Oe Fe oe On Oe ee we Oe oe on ee ow

‘June 22
Yazicioglu and attended by the following:

Under*Secretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade
Mir. M. Aksoy - Asst. General Manager. “Co eee irben
Mr. Te Macinit ~ Manager, Agricul iret Produces heen,

Ministry of Agriculture ;

Or. Y. Salcan - Asst. General Manager, Plant Protection
Mr.-M. Askin ~ Manager, por themical Licensing, Registration
Mr. M. Durgun - Manager. A ro-Chemical Dept,

Ms. F. Kucukkaliped = Engineer, Residue Aha lysis Laboratory

TEKEL General Management

Mr. N. Sagbi11 - Manager, Leaf Tobacco Commercial Section

DOr. G. Capan ~ Manager, Leat Tobacco Research and Quality Control —

Aegean Tobacco Exporters’ Association
Mr. E. QOzgener ~ President
Mr. N. Karagozogly - Member of the Board

Socotab Leaf Tobacco Co., Izmir

<> OS em Om om ams 2 far Om OD EY oy eee Dn fe OD Oe Sey Om Une ED Oxy en OE OD Oh

Mr. S. Gilchrist - Genera Manager

After a general review of the problem and the serious potential
impact on the Turkish tobacco industry, various proposals were
presented and discussed. Each representative proposed various
courses of action and gut lined how their respective grganizat ions
could assist in this e fort. Following these genera

the measures hereunder were decided upon: .

. i). A permanent committee was pominated to coordinate and oversee |
S

Ongoing campaign as wel as to direct future educational
programs for the farmers, monitor the registration and use of
PeOMpe Ty act. Gpem cas Ak Turkish relative fa teyetion, | and to

Oo .
exportabi tity BF kish Fobaece The committee was named "The

Tu .
furkis acco Quality Assurance Committee" and 15 composed of -

the following members;

Mr. T. quragay ~ Foreign Trade Office
Mr. T. Macinit -. * . . :
pr. i. paican - Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. N. sagbi ls - TEKEL General Management
r. F. Arik ~ Tobacco Exporters’ Association
r. C. Emek - " 4m "

he Foreign trade office in

ynd Pott tyh° wits periodically be
ee on such current topics as piant
trends

This group will meet regular
Ankara’ Experts, both Turkish
invited to address the comnitt r
- protection, tobacco agronomy, phytopathology, and wor?
in agro-chemicals, |

1990 ~ This coordination meeting was chaireg by Mr.

 

8S0S SOTTS