-s

wr

* LONGER RANGE STRATEGY
June 8, 1990 - Once the current crop campaign was wel} underwa
it was decided to bring this matter to” the attention of the
relevant government agencies in Ankara in order to gain their
support and cooperation in a coordinated long term effort.
_ Accompanying me to Ankara for these meetings were:
Mr. Es Ozgener ~ Pres ident Aegean Tobacco Exporters’ Association
Mr. N. Sagbili =~ TEKEL Mandger, Leaf Tobacco Commercial Section
Or. G. Capan ~ TEKEL Manager, leat Tobacco Research and .
. Quality Control —
An initial meeting was held with Mr, A. Kahveci Turkish Minister
of Finance and custons at és of this matter
was discussed. Mr. K a directive to ¢ e
-Director of the Export Section at Under secretariat 0
Treasury and Foreign Trade, Mr. Y, Yaziciogiu, with instructio
to coordinate with the Ministry of Agriculture and to give the
matter top priority.
‘A subsequent meeting was held with Mr, Yazicioglu to explain the
propien wen to discuss ways that the Government cou d organize an
et rect ive long-term campa gn to: a). contro] the use of these.
fungicides fh Turkis Obacco cultivation b) organize an
educational program to | teach. the farmers the proper and
controlled use of these and all. agro-chemicals c) set up a
monitoring system to regulate the use of agro-chemicals and to
detect miSuse at an ear y stage. It was decided at this peek ing
Q.set up a permanent Committee to coordinate and direct thes@
efforts, .
Mr. . Yazicioglu contacted the Ministry of Agriculture, and
arranged an appointment for gur delegation later the pame day and
called a meeting for the fol owing week to select the committee
and to set an agenda. . ;

At the Ministry of Agriculture we met .with Or. €.
Istanbulluogtu, Director oT the Plant Protection Division and his -
assistant Dr. Yusuf Salcan. Again the problem was discussed in
detail and residue levels from previous crop analyses were
reviewed. We found Or. Istanbul luo u to be well informed on the
current wor id-wide cencern about this class of. fungicid

ultu
reduce their usage in Turk igh A r guiture. He expla’
fur ish govern ng A WwW

$ W a tt
‘informing his depar nt that the
' produ was under . | rev{
US registration for one of these compounds, ZJ was being
rag tetration for nfs, proguce in furbot’wee’steee Besth ier Pueer,
re har
ang that any further action by the EPA would be fol Swed by his.
‘department. . —_ - .
Regarding tobacco, Dr. Istanbulluo lu explained t
a food Sproduer.” it ts not included Pia the
therefore has not previous ty: come .under = h
> € assured us that as we
nis department would cooperate -
n the ‘efforts to contro] ¢t § usage of these products in
fobacco cultivation. He assigned r. alcan and his staf? to
ollow the matter Closely and to attend the coordination meeting
at the Foreign Trade 0 fice set for June 22, —

LS@S 8OTTS