MAR. ¥,. 1990 - The. results were received and compiled by this
oot se “@fd sent by fax to. Mr. Greer for review and ronment by
JR‘ R&D.:° While no conclusive patterns Could be determined rom
the survey, it was clear that. there is a general lack of
understanding by the
controlled use of these and al} agro-chemica armer's
were found to be using excessive app ications Incorrect dosa es,
and using products for Purposes other than those or which they
are approved and labeled.

_ MAR. 12, 1990 - A meetin was held with the Board of Directors of
The Aegean Tobacco Exporters Association at which the results of:

he survey were ana lyzed and discussed, A proposed Circular was
° ted fo © the fa

t .

drawn up be prin r mass distribution rmers in
al] growing areas warning farmers 9 take extreme care in th

Of agro-chemicals and in trectiy alijud

‘the blue mold fungicides. At

agronomy department at TEKEL

circular.

e same time D an and the

getting'undervay Phtde,breparst ton of the 1990 reams ar ety tas
e " 1
buyers’ from bevy TEKEL “and the mercnan companies were formed and

assigned to canvass each district There they: met with the

these fungicides,’ and Specifically which
products are of concern, was Conveyed verbally at this time. In
each village the buyers met with the village counci! to emphasize
the. importance of this {ssue and to urge them to support and
moniter - the campaign throughout the season. The oster size
circular was posted. in the Village squares, ‘coffee ouses, and
other conspicuous places. mo

APR. 16; 1990 - The Tekel A ronomy Department prepared
devaileetere on proper Fobacco culty vatfon techniques, ine
a sect fon on the gontro ed uge Of agro-chemica $, whi
ang juded In the daily agricultural program on Turkish

MAY 15,1990 - In order to assess the effect 9
actual farme

mpaign on

was found th
te abd were adhering

   

application of the b ue, mo id _ fungicides. ver, some
wtiC areas were identifie where farmers ‘were font inuing
ations after rnanee anting. ' The teams repeated the earlier
Tons and warnings in thése areas.

>°

 

urkish farmers as to. the, proper and

@ use
t in ne DE Concees ve use of =
drew up their proposed text for this

f the cA
r practices, the buyer teams again toured the gene
underwa I a

e .
0 the eariier instructions and were refrainin from unnecessary.

GSOS gOTTS