CODD ure PC : 23.

silicosis where they had been exposed to fumes which irritated the
respiratory tract. Deformation of the respiratory tract due to sili-

co 58 greater bearing on the development of chronic bronchitis
and airway obstruction than immoderate cigarette smoking." .
. eT

_ FRUHMANN, G., SPECHT, Hi, & PROCUAZ~eRevy University of Munich

eo

~~ “Chronische Bronchitis und Staubkonzentration an Arbeitsplatz." (Chronic

ronchitis and dust concentration at the place of work) (Minchener
Medizinische Wochenschrift 118/7:; 209-12, February 1976: authors'
English summary)

"In connection with the chronic bronchitis key program of the
German Research Society 150] workers in a Minich engineering plant with
foundry were examined from 19) oO :
“Qustat the work place, bronchitic symptoms such as coughing and sputum
become significantly more frequent. Obstructive ventilation disturbances
do not increase... Heayy smokers show an Se ee greater frequency
of bronchitic symptoms nh those exposed to excessive dust. The ins
“Grease in bronchial ObSCHICtION In Telstion te the Sabet ion oF tovacco
ie remarkable. The effect of age seems to be rather less than that of
smoking and greater than that of dust.”

3. THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEM

JORGENSEN, 1.6. & GYNTELBERG, F., University of Copenhagen, Dennark A

“Occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males age 40-59."
(Danish Medical Bulletin 23/1: 23-8, February 1976)

"The occurrence of peptic ulcer disease in Copenhagen males was
investigated using 8 sample consisting of 5,249 individuals aged 40-59,
Every subject had an interview on the basis of a questionnaire, which
yielded information on previous diseases » working conditions, physical
activities, and consumption of stimulants and medicine. At the exam~
ination height, weight, and indirectly measured maximal aerobic power
were measured,

"A subject who had an ulcer confirmed by x-rays and had been
treated for ulcer diseases was included as an ulcer individual.

"Ninety per cent of the 5,249 individuals participated in a
one-year follow-up examination.

"Tife-t neidence of peptic ulcers was 9.2 per cent, and one-
year incidence 1.2 per cent. :
Pe eee rE AE

1s than in controls, e in the groups
of individuals developing ulcer disease during the one-year follow-up.

"A positive correlation between tobacco smoking and peptic ulcer
existed in = ence group, but not in the one-year incidence
ne etn ee One wyear incidence

"Soc marital status, and shift work were unrelated to
peptic ulcer. Psychological stress at work Was resent in more r
but was without significance

SO09G S8h0g