All of these estimates are conservative (i.e., the lowest avallable numbers were
used). Morbidity means the number of cases per year. Mortality means the number
of deaths. As you can see, there are many question marks in the table because the
data has not been collected.

The table presents only information on infectious diseases. Approximately
29-308 of the population of the United States hae one or more allergies. Many of
these are allergic to the house dust mite. Perhaps 1/3 to 1/2 are also allergic
to fungi. It has been estimated that sore than 400,000 emergency room admissions
occur each year for severe asthma attacks, the majority in children as a result of
indoor air exposure to allergens. The human and economic costs of these dramatic
events are obvious. The costs of lost work days and the deterioration in quality
of life related to less. severe attacks of asthma and hay fever have not been
calculated. 7

The biological toxicoses, while well-known for agriculture environments
(endotoxin) and related to ingestion of contaminated food (the fungal toxins) have
not been studied in indoor air. Several case reports indicate that these serious
dieeases do occur in residential and work environments, but frequency, risks, and
economic impact studies have not been done.

: Finally, the phenomenon known aa "sick building syndrome” is causing
increasing problems, especially in mechanically ventilated buildings. The causes
of this problem are currently unknown.

What apu ¢ b. ak t ral b x MW. b oO ut 8
indoor’ air?

Education: Some biological pollutants can be controlled by preventing or removing
contamination. Humidifiers, for example, are almost always contaminated unless
emptied and dried daily and cleaned thoroughly with a disinfectant every third
day. Residential exposure to Legionella can probably be controlled by keeping hot
water temperatures high, although then the riak of scalding increases. Buildings
that are dry (i.e., with no leaks, no stagnant water, low relative humidity, etc.)
rarely develop mold. House dust mites can be controlled by keeping relative
humidity low year round.

Regulation: The least expensive and easiest ways to build and operate homes and
workplaces are not always the best ways to provide good air quality. Therefore,
regulationa are needed to require adequate ventilation (which dilutes biological
aerosols aa well as other air pollutants), to allow adequate maintenance of
ventilation systems eo that biological contamination does not occur, to allow a
legal defense for people affected by poor air quality. © . :

Research: Although both education and regulation would help reduce to some extent
the impact of biological pollutants, we know ‘far too little about many of the
pollutants and their associated health risks to allow adequate education or to
justify regulation. For example, we do not know how many fungus spores are
necessary to cause any of the diseases listed above, and, therefore, cannot
develop rational standards for any environment. Before these dose/response
relationshipe can be determined, research is urgently needed to allow quantitative
evaluation of environments for blological pollutants.

9TTe SLLOS