wr Vad ar telea ty cette pS pbs RUZ RPRT ERE Cele cor HOE eh ape LAPD te

 

X

8
INDOOR BIOLOGICAL POLLUTANTS

Harriet A. Surge PhD
Associate Research Scientist
University of Michigan Medical School

What are the biological air soljutante that pose risks to public health?

Biological air pollutants or “bicaerosols" are particles or vapors in the
air that are derived from living organiams. Microscopic organisms such as
viruses, bacteria, and fungi (mold) become airborne, as well as toxic and
allergenic compounds produced by their growth in the environment. In addition,
higher organiama such as cockroaches, dust mites, cats, dogs, birds, etc. shed
allergens into the air. are common

Ww e i i 2

Biological air pollutants cause infections, allergies, and toxic diseases.
Some of these are listed below:

Organism Source th seace

Virus Humans : Influenza
: Measles
Chicken pox
Some colds
Bacteria Humans Tuberculosis
Water reservoirs Legionnaires’ disease
Water reservoirs Humidifier fever
Heating systems "Farmera’ lung disease”

(hypersensitivity pneumonia)
odors, discomfort

Fungi Damp materials Aspergillosis (infection)
“Farmers’ lung: disease”
Asthma

“hay fever*

Acute toxic disease
Cancer

edors, discomfort

Sick building syndrome?

The infectious diseases result when a living microorganism invades and grows
in human tissue. The airborne viral diseases (all of which are infectious) are
transmitted through the air from one person to another. Most of the airborne
viral diseases affect anyone who has not already had the disease, including normal
healthy children and adultes. They are familiar and need not be reviewed here.
Tuberculosis is a familiar lung disease that, as with viruses, ia tranemitted
through the air when infected patients cough, sing, or even talk. The organisms
does not grow in environmental reservoirs such as cooling towers or humidifiers.
Normal healthy people require large doses of the causative bacterium before
infection occurs. Tuberculosis is a re-emerging problem because there are
increasing numbers of patienta with impaired immunity (including AIDS patients)
who are highly susceptible to the disease. Legionnaires’ disease ia another

PITE BLLOS