infection that primarily attacks people with lowered immunity. It is a severe
form of pneumonia which kille approximately 15% of infected people. The disease
hae probably been occurring as long aa tuberculosis, but has not been adequately
diagnosed until recently. Unlike the tuberculosis bacterium, the organism causing
Legionnaires’ disease (Legionella pneumophila) grows in stagnant, warm water and
entere the air when such contaminated water is disturbed. The fungal infectious
diseases that are transmitted in indoor air are rare, and are restricted to
seriously 111 people with poor immunity (e.g., AIDS patients, transplant
recipients).

 

The allergic diseases do not require Living organisms. The diseases are the
reault of an immune response in people exposed to airborne particles containing
large, complex molecules (uaually proteins). Hypersensitivity pneumonitis (also
called Farmers’lung disease or allergic alveolitis) can result when large numbers
of these particles enter the lung, and lung immune system over-responds. It is a
serious form of pneumonia that cannot be cured with antibiotic therapy.

Untreated, the disease leade to permanent lung damage and death. The only cure is
to remove the person from the source of exposure, or to remove the eource from the
environment. Asthma and hay fever can be caused by similar airborne particles.
However, the particles need not penetrate the lung, but are effective if they land
in the noee, or even the mucous membranes of the eye. Asthma is a severe
disability that results in major changee in lifestyle for affected individuals,
and can be fatal. It is especially a problem in children. Hay fever, while less
serious, causes impairment in the ability to work and lowers the quality of life
for millions of people.

The third class of illness caused by biological aerosols are toxicoses.
Toxins generally affect all who are exposed regardlesa of their health status,
The bacterial toxin called "endotoxin" causes a flu-like disease called humidifier
fever. The fungi produce a wide variety of toxins with many different effects
that range from acute irritation, nausea, and dizziness to cancer. The most
potent known carcinogen is a fungal toxin. Some fungal effluents are volatile and
contribute the moldy or mildewy smell associated with fungal growth. These same
compounds may play a role in sick building syndrome, although this has not been
carefully studied.

What _is t tent a ever & y t
u ear?

We actually have too little data to accurately answer this question,
although we know the health impact and the economic impact of a few of the
diseases related to biological pollution are very large. Following is a summary
of some of the information we do have taken from Burge, HA. 1990, Toxicology and
Industrial Health Vol 6, No 2: .. --

A Summary of Available Statistics on Indoor Transmission
of Respiratory Diseases

Annual Annual Est. Cos Est. Cost

Disease Morbid. Monal & Ret wo laQ Total($) IAQ tS)
Toul RI 8x 101) ? NOS 2.4% 10" (2) 73x10
Influenza 1x10 (1) 10000 (3} NO 5.0.x 10° (4) 3.0 10"
Common cold 9x 107 (1) 3 NOK
Legionella

community 2x10 6000? ($) 0 ? 7

hospital 72x10 30000? (3) 790 ? ?

 

1 = Garibaldi 1985, 2 = Dison 1985, } = Brundage 1988, 4 = Schoenbaum 1987, $ = Meyer 1983).

STIS BLL0S