An Art Director's Viewpoint

 

Advertising Age, December 23,. 1968

How to Get a Woman's Attention:

By. Stephen Baker

The man-woman situations depicted in
the Silva Thins commercials are selling
cigarets by. the millions.

In| case you haven’t watched television:
lately, these are the commercials which
have slight maso-
chistic overtones.
There is this long
bony character who
wears no smile and
dark glasses; who
seems to be very.
preoccupied,. as: it
in a daze; who loves
his ‘Impossible Cig-
arets” so much that
he prefers them to
even the most beau-
tiful girls.

He likes cigarets and hates: women so
much, in fact, that he forsakes the latter
on deserted highways, ocean liners, cable
cars, mountain tops, penthouse apartments
and anywhere else if the girls as much as
dare: to touch his cigarets. He is the epito-
me:of the modern male-on-the-prowl who
picks his. women: the way you’d pick. your
hors d'oeuvre off a smorgasbord table;
they are merely to satisfy his momentary
appetite. He is obnoxious, arrogant and
quite possibly incurably selfish, but he
executes his rude antics with admirable
eloquence.

This infuriating oaf may yet.go down in
marketing history as one of the most bril-
liant. creations of advertising pundits. Ob-
viously,. viewers of either sex—and partic-
ularly. the young—enjoy vicariously the
adventures of the Silva Thins man.

Women (an important market for this
cigaret): especially dig the scene of “The
Impossible Cigaret.” Psychologically, they
seem to fee] right.at home: with the situa-
tions. They quite willingly put themselves
in the place of the suffering heroine.

Puts Women Where They Want to Be

The makers: of this campaign demon-
strate a shrewd insight into the emotional
make-up of today’s woman.. Using what
appears: to be a masculine approach: in
their advertising, they: are reaching the
very core of: their feminine audience. The
hero. in the Silva Thins commercials ap-
pears. to be just what the doctor ordered.
His: strength lies in his aloofness. Ignoring
practically every rule of etiquette, he

 

Stephen Baker

summarily puts his girlfriend'in her place,.

(4)

and exactly where so many women would
unconsciously like to:be:

The Silva Thins commercials, bold as
they may be in their approach, are an
open proclamation to the American pub-
lic that it’s: still the male who rules the
roost, or should be. Here the: woman is
presented with a boyfriend figure who
dominates instead of being dominated.
While he makes no attempt. to make out
with: her—in fact if anything he takes
the opposite tack—he establishes a rela-
tionship that pleases her feminine instinct.

It will be interesting to watch the sales
of Silva Thins continue to climb. The fact
that concurrently another cigaret, Virginia
Slims, is trying to: reach the female mar-
ket. with its “For-Women-Only” cigaret
makes things even livelier. Our guess. is
that the appeal of Virginia Slims—which
claims that its cigaret' is made for women
to permit them to assert. their independ-
ence at last—will not be as. successful: as
that of “The Impossible Cigaret.”

It's easy to change cigarets. It’s not so
easy to change the fundamental! psychol-
ogy of women, #

 

Ignore Her

Silva Thins character may go down in marketing history, says Steve Baker.

 

1002403141