-2-

The control portion of the test used 612 paper filters and standard
production tipping with P-77 adhesive. Cigarettes were also made using the
standard 612 paper filters with the three various porosities of HST tipping
previously mentioned.

Physical breakdown and TPM data ia listed in Attachment 3. Noteworthy.
information to be gleaned from this data includes:

e Unlike some previous tests, filter draft with the NWA filter (1-13,257
B, C, and D) is close to standard filters (A) ,

@ Control (L-13,257 A) has slightly higher tar than desired

@ Nicotine levels on the NWA products are higher than on comparable
tar valued paper filters (tar/tiicotine ratio is generally lower on
an air diluted NWA filter than paper)

@ Carbon monoxide (C.0.) is generally lower with the NWA filter than
with paper

e Change in pressure across the cigarette filter (AP) is greater for
the NWA than paper for equal tar values. This may indicate less
filtration efficiency or a difference in filtration selectivity.

Booth Smoking Panel tests were conducted two weeks after filters were
made. Parts D, E, and F were smoked on the Research Panel and the other
parts at Product Development. No differences were indicated on the NWA
product except as noted in the menthol flavor level on part D. See Attach-
ment #4.

The Expert Smoking Panel rated the 70 second porosity NWA significantly
better than control. There was less stemmy taste, nasal sting, and throat
harshness with the NWA product. Several taste aspects of the NWA cigarette
were rated higher than control and the test product was directionally milder.
These results are summarized in Attachment #5.

CONCLUSION:

We have demonstrated that the NWA WINSTON Menthol 100 cigarette is a
viable product.

RECOMMENDATION:

Pending the favorable results of our U. S. Mail Panel test (L-13,408)
we recommend an extended production run of the NWA/70 second EP/HST product
be made. Anticipating this end, five bobbins of tipping have been produced.
This represents approximately a three hour run on WINSTON Menthol 100.

 

 

 

€09S O8tos