Vol. 264 No 24

maturation. They do not “disregard” animal evi-
dence but urge the use of at least the same material
and the same organs that are involved in lung
cancer and other diseases under investigation. They
further urge that pathologists clarify their own con-
cepts of these diseases and of their possible histologic
precursors before the incidence of such diseases and
conditions is recorded, tabulated, analyzed and inter-
preted with unjustified confidence and misleading
fikality.

Many public-health educators today are advocat-
ing and conducting active prepaganda campaigns
against smoking. No one can fairly deny them this
right.

“a critical scientists and medical men, however,
should agree that public education in this field
should be balanced and should present all the facts
both pro and cor tobacco in order that the reader
may base his or her decision on the whole evidence,
not on a selected or partial presentation.

Unfortunately, and by what seems to be delibcrate
selection, the majority of educational material being
distributed is not balanced or complete. Negative
evidence, gaps in knowledge and fallibility of super-
ficial data are not mentioned.

Dr. Wynder cites various health groups and in-
dividuals who are convinced of the theory of tabacco
guilt. He does not consider in detail the editorial
comment in the Journal of the American Medical
Assorierion, the views of the distinguished statisticians
Berkson and Sir Ronald Fisher and many others who
are not convinced. In so doing he presents an ex-
ample of a selective attitude rather than of balanced
evidence.

No new specially convened groups, boards of 1e-
view, committees or commissions — no matter how
“big” and impressive the “names” of their individual
members — can make incomplete or superficial data
more meaningful. Resolutions and pronunciamentos
based on such data will not resolve the problem —
much less solve it.

Presentation of selected evidence has created a
superstructure of material that is based on a funda-
mentally weak foundation of incompletely and in-
directly gathered information, on uncertain and
debatable pathological interpretation, and on non-
scientific extrapolation of animal data from con-
centrates of tobacco smoke on mouse skins to whole
smoke in human lungs.

The relative role, if any, that smoking may have

SMOKING AND LUNG CANCER — LITTLE

EL10004115

1245

is submerged and forgoiten in a dedicated effort to
isolate tobacco as the cause of Jung cancer. Even if
one is an evangelist ia this field, one should remember
the very similar situation regarding alcohol that, not
so many years ago, gave to this country the unfor-
gettable experience of “prohibition.”

If one is not such an evangelist, one is bound to do
all that one reasonably can to prevent the public
from being cajoled into premature judgment based
on incomplete and inadequate knowledge. To develop
a public attitude that may later be tragically and
bitterly faced with disillusionment in individual ex-
perience is a grave responsibility. This is especially
true when “fear” is used as a motivating factor in
establishing the attitude of the public. Unfortunately,
this has occurred in certain propaganda efforts. This
is noz only unfortunate; it is cruel and unwise.

Those ready to assume such a responsibility may
believe that they have the right to do so. Those
not ready to accept as final proof the existing data
also have a right to their attitude.

Those not yet decided about what their judgment
will be have a right to consider all available evidence
and to hear suggestions of what might be done in
further research. They also have the right to suspend
judgment just as long as they may wish.

The situation involving tobacco is not a contre-
versy or a debate. Efforts to arouse emotion, create
Propaganda and cater to publicity will only create
the danger of a controversy and retard scientific
investigation.

Lung cancer, indeed all cancer, is a challenge, an
unsolved problem. Its etiology will probably long be
an phen question. As such, greater co-operation and
exchange of ideas among experimenters, statisticians
and clinicians are the goals wo be focused on and to be
attained.

Brauiocharny

Berkson, J. Statisucal study of essociauon between smoking and lung
concer. Proc. Staff Meet., Meyo Cim. 38:319-349, 1955, Smokin
and lung cancer. some obpervationi on two recent repors | Am.
Statizt. 4. 53.28-38, 1932. Suatsneal investigauon of emoking and

Clim 34: 206-2242, 1959

cancer of bh Proc. Stal Meat... M

Statistics end tobacco. pA cA WIL OO6S, ib60

1 R, and Hull, A.B. Morulity of doctors in relation to their
tmoting habits. imunary ceport Brit Af. J 2 2450-1655, 1954
Lung cancer other causes of death in relauon to amoking:
tecond report on mostslity of Britsh doctom. bid 21071-1031,

Fuher. R. A. Dangers of cigarette smoking Bur. M 2-43 and 297,
1937. Cigaretta, cancer and statutes. Centenmal Ret Art @ Sc
(Michigan State Unie.) 251515166, § ng, 1938. Lung cancer and

(London) 142:108 i Cancer and amokicg.
moting: TAe cancer controierty. Some aiterapis
to onen the emdence. 4? pp. Edinburgh: ©!

tres? Nature

$96, F ,
vert 2

Telbor. J. H. Smoting and jung cancer J AMA IPE: 2102-2108, 1989