Vol. 264 No. 24

One point of view holds that excessive cigarette
smoking introduces one or more specific contact
carcinogens. But if this is true, how does one ac-
count for the association of smoking with other non-
contact diseases? Those who claim that cigarettes
are the “major” cause of lung cancer — assuming
a contact carcinogen — certainly should not accuse
cigarettes of similarly causing, for example, prostatic
cancer, even though a statistical association is shown
between this disease and cigarettes.

To answer this, another point of view proclaims
that excessive smoking produces that hackneyed
medical umbrella — “general debility” — under
which so many variable and unexplained afflictions
have crouched for years, protected from the chilling
rain of scientific definition and analysis.

There are certain unresolved conflicts of opinion
among the statisticians who point the finger of guilt
at smoking. One such conflict invalves the com-
_parison between inhalers and noninhalers of cigs-
rette smoke.

British scientists have found, in a survey of smok-
ing habits of a large number of doctors, virtually no
difference in Jung-cancer incidence between the two
categories. What difference they did find was that
the inhalers seemed to have slightly fess lung cancer
than the nominks!ovr.

Some investigators in the United States believe
that there is a greater proportional incidenze of
lung cancer among inhalers, but they have not pro-
duced firm data to establish this theory.

Obviously, someone is wrong. Both cannot be right.

Since replies from the British physicians concern-
ing their habits of inhalation were collected in the
same way and by the same persons who collected
information about the number of cigarettes smoked,
the duration of the amoking habit and the periods of
interruption of the habit, the degree of accuracy of
all this information needs verification by further
studies. This is all the more essential since a highly
detailed degree of quantitative and comparative
significance has been given to these figures by many
eager statisticians.

Another difference in observational results us seen
in the supposed effect of the continued smoking of
cigarettes. Some data appear to show a “protective”
effect of cigar and pipe smoking, if these kinds of
tobacco use are arl’rd to cigarette smoking, regard-
less of whether the latter is light, medium or heavy.
In other words, people who smoke all three types
of tobacco — cigarettes, cigar and pipe — acquire
less Jung cancer, according to these data, than
smokers of cigarettes alone.

The variation in the claimed “excess risk” of
lung cancer among cigarette smokers as calculated
from statistical studie: ig annther example of con-
flicting opinion.

Contrary to many generalizations made about

SMOKING AND LUNG CANCER —LITTLE

6110004113

1243

these statistical studies, they do not all show the
same thing. Depending upon which study is ex-
amined, one finds that the relative risk of lung
cancer among cigarette smokers may be fractionaily
higher, or may be three or four or five or six or
nine times, and $0 on, up to thirty-six times the risk
among nonsmokers.

Similarly, there is a wide difference of opinion
concerning the relative quantitative role of cigarette
smoking in the etiology of bronchogenic carcinoma,
even among those who believe in the guilt of tobacco.

These estimates, based on the same statistical
data, of how much of the lung-cancer incidence can
be attributed to cigarettes vary from as high as 90
per cent, or almost totality, downward by degrees
to less than 10 per cent, or almost nothing. Since
the same statistical data are available to all, it is
evident that such estimates are more a reflection of
the degree of interpretive zeal and enthusiasm that
each interpreter possesses than they are of scientific
significance. All the guesses cannot be right, and if
only one is, who can say which one it is?

There are certain other examples of conflicting
data and interpretations that will perlaps be help-
ful in encouraging a balanced and comprehensive
basis for evaluation of many aspects of statistical
investigation.

One is the relatively higher mortality among males
from all the common respiratory diseases. Some
statisticians and epidemiologists accept this as a
constitutional or genetic difference between the sexes.
The largely unbalanced X chromosome in males
would provide an increased opportunity for direct
expression of certain genes that might influence
susceptibility. The balanced X chromosomes of the
female would decrease this opportunity.

Others believe that no real difference exists be-
tween the sexes and that when women have smoked
as long and as much as men they will show an equal
mortality from lungcancer.

There are two lines of statistical evidence that
strongly favor the existence of a real sex difference
in susceptibility. One is direct and consists of the
fact that the lung-cancer mortality difference be-
tween the sexes has been widening in recent years
instead of closing. On the theory that relatively more
and more women are completing the hypothesized
eancer-latency period of twenty to thirty or more
years of smoking, the gap should narrow.

The second line of evidence, which is indirect, is
the persistently greater susceptibility of men to other
respiratory ailments in which exposure of both sexes
to infection and other causes is more nearly equal.

Another area of disagreement concerning the
statisuval data is the duration of the aforementioned
Ny puthesized laters period before the carcinogenic
changes attributed ft emoting ape aunnwad en
become evident Fstimates vary over a range of fren