Vol. 264 No. 24

, ©LT60041711

SMOKING AND LUNG CANCER — LITTLE 1241

SOME PHASES OF THE PROBLEM OF SMOKING AND LUNG CANCER
Cuarence C. Litre, Sc-D.*
ELLSWORTH, MAINE

M’ object in discussing the subject of smoking in
relation to lung cancer is quite different from
that of Dr. Wynder. His purpose is to present data
that have convinced him that smoking is a major —
perhaps the major — cause of lung cancer. This he
has dene before many groups over a period of years.
He does so with complete conviction and with en-
thusiasm. He professes little interest in the broad
question of lung-cancer etiology outside smoking
whereas the fact that the disease develops in non-
smokers as well as in smokers seems of basic sig-
nificance to me. One cannot properly disregard re-
search on the total mechanism of cancer formation in
favor of dealing with an assumed environmental agent
not active in some cases.

It is my purpose to present certain of the reasons
why all such data (which are at times based on
rather superficial, scattered and indirect observations}
fail tu convince other scientists and medical men that
a cause-ar.d-effect relation between tobacco use and
bronchogenic carcinoma has been established.

This does not mean that certain existing studies
have not produced suggestive findings. }t merely pro-
poses that the many problems raised by such studies
are not yet solved and that much more research in
depth is needed before definitive answers will be avail-
able.

In the process of this brief discussion there will be
some mention of methods for qualitatively more ac-
curate and scientific levels of research than those
now employed by some investigators.

To expect, as Dr. Wynder and some others do, that
those still unconvinced should state the exact and
specific evidence that would “convince” them is being
completely unrealistic. If one could define such
specific evidence the problem would be already
solved. The following suggestions, however, may in-
dicate some steps toward clearing the tangle of con-
fused and conilicting opinions now prevalent.

No effort will be made to follow a definite classi-
fication of evidence, but certain pertinent fields of
imerest are convenitnt focal points in an even brief
consideration of the entire situation.

PaTnoioscy

From the pathological aspect, areas af epithelial
metaplasia in the lungs have been Aatly interpreted
by a minority group of pathologists as being pre-
cancerous areas significantly associated with smoking.

‘Scientifie director, Tobacco Ind Research 3
e enti ‘or ndvatey Committes; director

However, similar lesions have been found in infants,
in children and in nonsmokers. It i¢ known that
several diseases, many of which are commonly as-
sociated with childhood years, will produce such
lesions in bronchial epithelium. This shows that the
origin of these lesions may be independent of smoking.

These lesions have also been found in large num-
bers in the trachea, over which all inhaled smoke
must pass but in which caricer is clinically rare. The
epithelial tissues of the trachea and the bronchi are
very similar. Therefore, one must ask, and there is
no satisfactory answer, if smoking does cause lung
cancer, why is it that the trachea does not form cancer
as the lung does?

Though some claim that these epithelial lesions in
the lung occur in greater numbers in smokers than
in nonsmokers, it has also been shown that this is
tis of persons who are afflicted with pneumonia.
Therefore, the increase in the lesions is not distinctly
diagnostic of any eflect of tobacco.

Added to these facts, pathologists need to make
woueerted efforts to improve and agree upon criteria
for classification of human lung tumors into types
fuch as adenoma and squamotis-cell cancer so that
studies of relative rates of incidence and of possible
environmental and other influences on such rates
could be made more meaningful.

Thus, there are basic gaps in pathological obser-
vations and interpretations indicating that the evi-
dence in this field falls far short of being adequate
or conclusive

To clear up the existing discrepancies and disagree-
ments among pathologists is one prerequisite to fur-
ther progress based upon more significant definitions.

Anma. ExpaRiMENTATION

Dr. Wynder was one of the fust tu report the pro-
duction of skin cancers in certain strains of mice
painted repeatedly with strong concentrations of
lobacco-smoke condensates. This type of work has
been accepted by some as “evidence” of a causative
relation between smoking and human cancer of the
lung.

However, proponents of this kind of data ignore or
depreciate the more applicable research in which the
lungs of animals have been exposed for long periods
to whole smoke — which is the accused material —
without the production of any rmalignant tumors.
Here, the lung of an animal is being challenged, nor
the skin, and whule smoke being used, not a ma»
chine-made concentrate. There have becn muany
such experiments here and abroad. and none have