1242 THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE

bzen able to produce carcinoma of the lung in
animals.

More than once the cry has gone up, “Why not
remove the harmful substance from tobaccn smoke
and make it safe?’ No one has proved that tobacco
smoke can cause lung cancer. How, then, can an un-
identified material be “removed” from a substance
not yet shown to be carcinogenic?

Production of neoplasia by exposure to whole smoke
would seem to be a reasonable requirement to raise
the level of extrapolative interpretation beyond that
of nonscientific speculation and to provide some sort
of basic knowledge from which to proceed to further
experimental analysis.

The skin-painting work with tobacco-smoke con-
densates on animals has been used to erect a whole
superstructure of estimated quantitative degrees of
risk of lung cancer from smoke in human beings. This
sort of extrapolation from animals to human beings
exceeds scientific limits.

The results of this animal skin-painting work were
obtained by use of concentrated chemical material in
which no substance known to be carcinogenic to man
has been demonstrated. Furthermore, no substances
have been detected in the smoke concentrate that
are present in amounts, either alone or in combina-
tion, sufficient to wiount for Lioigic activity on the
skins cf Jaboratory animals. The material used has
been obtained by methwts of machine smoking that
differ radically trom the process of human mmoting

If one claims that a substance that produces a
biologic reaction on the skin of a laborato.y animal
should be removed from use by human beings, there
are many substances that fall in this category even
though they have been used by and applied to man

_ with impunity for years. For instance, invert sugar,

egg albumen and even tomato juice have been re-
ported as having produced cancers in animals in
laboratory experiments.

Sranistics

It is the statistical data that comprise the great bulk
of the material on which rest the dogmatic claims of
“proof” of a cause-and-effect relation between smok-
ing and Jung cancer.

Supporters of the tobacco-guilt hypothesis say:
“Look at the great number of epidemiologic. studies,
all showing a statistical association between cigarette
smoking and the development of lung cancer in
some individuals. Is not this proof of causation?”

Quantity in this statistical area is not proof or
corroboration. Indeed, one would expect that all
statistical studies similarly set up would show a sta-
tistical association if one of them did — but such an
association is not proof of causation by any means.

Most statisticians, recognizing the secondary and
indirect nature of epidemiolorie evidence hzeed en
death certificates, agree that such evidence alure cane

ElTG004119

June 15, 1961

not properly be considered final or conclusive in ¢s-
tablishing causation. It may be, and in this case is,
suggestive and challenging. It demands and is re-
ceiving proper consideration by those who require ad-
ditional and more direct evidence pro or con the
theory of tobacco guilt.

Te was a statistical finding that was chiefly respon-
sible fox stimulating the present intensive study of
smoking and health. That finding was the increas-
ing number of recorded deaths from lung cancer, par-
ticularly among white males, during recent decades.

However, there was and still is wide divergence of
opinion about how much of the reported increase in
lung-cancer mortality is real and how much is ap-
Parent, resulting from improved diagnostic technics,
greater attention to the disease on the part of physi-
cians, aging of the population and better methods of
classifying and reporting causes of death.

One important fact of which one can be sure is
that the numerical increase in reported lung-cancer
mortality is not an exact measure of change in the
real attack rate. One cannot be sure how much, if
any, the actual mortality from this cause has ben
increasing.

Involvement of tobacco use in mortality is based
on the statistical association of smoking habits with
the rate of death. Such an association hzs been re-
ported for “excessive” cigarette smoking by a num-
ber of epidemiologic studies. This is the keystone in
the arch of accusations against smoking by those who
call it the “major” cause of lung cancer and a num-
ber of other diseases.

Hardly a disease has escaped the mass of statistics
dealing with smoking. Causes of death that have
been related by statistical studies to excessive ciga-
rette smoking include general mortality, lung cancer,
cancer of the mouth, pharynx, larynx and esophagus,
stomach cancer, bladder cancer, kidney cancer, cancer
of the pancreas and prostate, malignant lymphoma
and other forms of cancer combined, bronchitis,
emphysema, pneumonia and other respiratory dis-
Fases, Coronary-artery disease, general arteriosclero-
sis, hypertension, cerebrovascular disease and gen-
eral mortality from diseases of the heart and
circulation, peptic ulcer and cirrhosis of the liver.
Furthermore, other medical literature relates ciga-
rette smoking to eye trouble, nose and ear ailments,
miscarriages, sterility and other disturbances of the
reproductive organs and a host of actions on the
nervous, endocrine and digestive systems of man.

One's credulity has to be strained to believe that
these diseases, most of which have existed since
medical experience began, are now being caused
by cigarette smoking, which, in the past fifty or
sixty years, has become a widespread custom.

This long list of diverse and unrelated causes of
death brings one ig ihe fist major arva of disagree
ment among the statisticians themselves.