1244
ten or fifteen to thirty or forty years. Since about
90 per cent of heavy smokers at eighty years of age
or aver do not have lung cancer, and since many
people report that they started to smoke at the age
of twelve, there scerms to be no valid reason why,
if it is convenient to do so, the latent period should
not be extended from early adolescence throughout
the life span. This could be a great statistical satis-
faction, a large “back door” of uncertainty through
which to escape when necessary.

There are also differences in defining what may
properly be classed as “heavy,” “moderate” or “light”
cigarette smoking. The “pack-a-day” criterion, as
recorded from the recollection of smokers or their
families or friends, is only an approximate estimate
and not a scientific measurement. It is obvious that
a person who smokes 20 cigarettes a day to the
shortest convenient butt length may draw into his
mouth an amount of smoke equal to that of a smoker
who daily smokes 60 cigarettes down to two thirds
of their length.

The only thing common to smokers of a given
number of cigarettes a day — i
figures are accurate — is that they lighted the sane
number of cigarettes. This brings up another device
used in sume of the statistical studies: that of translat-
ing quantities of cigar and pipe tobacco used into
terms of packages of cigarettes: This kind of non-
scientific conjecture merely serves to complicate and
confuse intcrpretation of the differences reported in
ali the statistical studies between the effects of ciga-
rettes, cigars and pipes.

In summation of the statistical aspect, it is fair
to expect that the epidemiologists should provide
certain essential refinements in their technics and
conclusions before they seek to define the problems
that their preliminary findings have raised.

Among the questions they should settle are the
following:

Is inhalation a necessary factor in the apparent
association between smoking and lung cancer?

Is the claimed increase in risk from smoking a
steady, curnulative process, or is there a threshold
of smoking up to which no such increase is
significant ?

How ure estimates of the relative etiologic
potency of smoking versus age, sex, air pollution,
previous infections, genetic factors and so forth
derived? Much more needs to be known about
the types of persons who are prone to cancer or
cardiovascular disease.

Ornex Factors

Factors other than smoking cannot and should
not be overlooked in the search to find the etiology

of lung cancer.
A eccineconomic difference has been observed in

THE NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE

that the"

' GL 10004114

June 15, 1961

lung-cancer incidence in many areas. The lower the
economic level, the higher the rate of lung cancer.
This difference is worthy of continued attention and
study.

Malnutrition and dietary deficiencies, already ap-
parently involved in some degree in the etiology of
cancer of the buccal cavity and the tongue, comprise
one subject to be investigated. Stress and strain as
an unbalancing and continuing element in life form
another possible factor to be kept in mind.

Another factor to be considered is the possible role
of previous or current respiratory infectious processes,
with their accompanying lesions, and disturbances
or disruptions of the continuity of function of certain
areas of the lung. There is an amazing symmetrical
divergence between the curve of recorded increase
of lung-cancer mortality and the curve of decreasing
death rate from respiratory infections. This may or
may not prove to be a coincidence, but it is certainly
deserving of further study. There have been reports
in the literature indicating a strong link berween the
decline in deaths from tuberculosis — a disease said
to afflict, unknowingly, virtually all persons in
civilized countries — and the increase in those from
lung cancer.

The corsistently higher statistical incidence of
Jung cancer in urban populations as compared with
rural is considered evidence of the need for further
study of air pollutants as a potential factor of im-
portance.

There is already an increasing body of research
evidence that there are significant psychounviional
differences between comoulsive, evcessive smokers on
the one hand and confirmed nonsmokers on the other.

Exact experimental science is apt to shy away from
the effects of the relatively intangible and complex
factors that determine differences between human
beings. Yet in an involved and new type of intense
human living, the mind and body are meeting chal-
lenges to the more simple and basic inter-relations
that were all that was necessary for successful sur-
vival under previous, less involved environmental
conditions.

This situation may be temporarily ignored by
those who dislike the existence of unknown or little
understood elements in human health problems. It
will, however, be firmly and persistently insistent
until it is faced and an attitude of attempting its
analysis is adopted. It is am integral part of the
problems at hand.

It is true that these problems require the develop-
ment of new skills and patience in approaching
them statistically, pathologically and expenmentally.
These steps, however, are inherent in the problems
and aie not the preduct of destructive criticism as
hinted by Dr. Wynder.

These steps are not a “negation” of statistical
evidence, but are a plea for its refinement and