UPHOLSTERED

FURNITURE
ACTION
COUNCIL :
Box 2436
cM

High Point, NC 27261
(819) 835-5065

FABRIC CLASSIFICATION TEST METHOD--1990

I. BACKGROUND

To participate in the UFAC Voluntary Action Progran, upholstered
furniture manufacturers must agree to produce their furniture in
accordance with the basic UFAC construction criteria. In order to
identify component materials which meet the UFAC requirements, a test
method is needed to define acceptable performance in each criterion.

II. SCOPE

This test method is intended as the means of establishing the
performance level of upholstery cover fabrics in contact with
polyurethane foam with respect toe cigarette ignition resistance.
Fabrics which meet the requirements of this test method may be labelled
as UFPAC Class I, and may be used directly over conventional polyurethane
in the horizontal seating surfaces of upholstered furniture bearing the
UFAC hangtag. All other fabrics are UFAC Class II and require an
approved barrier between the cover fabric and conventional polyurethane
foam in the horizontal Seating surfaces.

ITI. GENERAL PROCEDURE

Vertical and horizontal panels of two inch UPAC Standard Polyurethane
Foam substrate are covered, using the fabric to be tested. The panels
are placed in three specimen holders and a lighted cigarette is placed
in each crevice formed by the abutment of vertical and horizontal panels
of each assembly. Each cigarette is covered with a piece of sheeting
fabric. The cigarettes are allowed to burn their entire length, unless
an obvious ignition occurs. Test measurements and observations are
recorded. A minimum of three test specimens are required for each cover
fabric sample to be classified.

TV. DEFINITIONS

1. IGNITION: Continuous, self-sustaining smoldering combustion of
upholstered furniture substrates after exposure to burning cigarettes.
2. OBVIOUS IGNITION: Pronounced continuous and self-sustaining

combustion of the test system. Determination is a matter of operator
judgement based upon experience in this type of testing. ~

3. SAMPLE: Upholstery cover fabric material being classified.

4. SPECIMEN: Individual piece of sample used in one test assembly.

5. CHAR: Area of fabric which is destroyed or degraded from face to.

back, not including the area which is only discolored by smoke.

April 1, 1990

PTP9 ES8OS