San Francisco

Based on the current 4 week average ending 5/15, this line extension's
share has dropped to the 0.3 level. The regular packing (S.0.M: 0.19)
demonstrated a share advantage compared to the menthol (S.0.M: 0.13)

counterpart. Shipments during the past 3 weeks have been at 0.2 - 0.3

tpt 3) when compared to Memphis -- an above average Slims market
$DI:128).

For 5 consecutive weeks, movement via the ICC distributor has
consistently situated Virginia Slim Ultra Light at the 0.5 to 0.6 level.
The most recent week shows that the regular packing (0.3) exhibits a
share advantage compared to the menthol (0.2) complement.

Retail data from the 50 store panel indicate a 1.3 S.0.M. based on the
recent four week average (w/e 4/26). During the current two week
period, share was somewhat lower, registering at the 1.0 level with
sales equally split between the two packings. There were no free deals
offered during the recent two week period. However, during the prior 2
week period (w/e 4/12), free offers represented 25% of the Ultra Low
Tar's total sales.

The recent four week average reveals that the brand achieved a similar
share in carton outlets (1.4) versus pack outlets (1.3).

In this panel of outlets, Virginia Slims Ultra's distribution increased
as of the two weeks ending 4/13 to 82% -- a gain of +8 versus the prior
two week period. The 00S level remained at 3% in these stores. During
the following two weeks, distribution continued to improve with 85% of
stores carrying; however, 6% reported OOS.

The brand's distribution is somewhat below the audit per SPACE residing
at 78% effective w/e 5/08/87. Note that this level reflects a +3

increase since our last report. AK
If you have any questions, please feel free to call.

w
o
cc: R. Anise H. Glastein E. Merlo J. Spect S
R. Atlas L. Glennie R. Mikulay R. Stirlen C3
A. Bissmeyer A. Goldfarb D. Miller L. Suwarna En
V, Buccellato H. Goldfrach K, Miller D. Tso a
W. Campbell T. Goodale W. Murray L. Suwarna DD
W. Cashion-SSM J. Lee D. Nelson S. Vasquez-SSM a}
G. Cofield C. Leiber B. O'Brien B. Weinstein ° w
J. Cunningham C. Levy L. Olson L. Wexler
D. Dangoor J. Lincoln J. Petroski-SSM  L. Zinski
D. Desfor J. Kuhlman-DRS D. Potter J. Zoler
K, Eisen M. Mallardi F, Resnik
C. Finch-DRS E. McQuigg B. Reuter
J. Gillis R. Medwar T. Saloun