Lene cede es tee te amen a nr nie Seen ateenitetladittieemtee see

mer a

a

 

We are scheduled to receive this week additional menthol capsules made
by the formaldehyde-urea encapsulating technique for use in the development
of a menthol cigarette in which the menthol taste may be augmented by breaking
the capsules after the cigarette is partially smoked.

B. PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

I. Cigarettes with Embossed Plug Wrap

Tests L-1841 and L-1842 were made in this period as a continuation of .
the development of this concept. As noted in previous studies, it was possible -
to achieve desired reduction in nicotine and TPM and still maintain a reason-
able draft resistance. It is still difficult to make satisfactory cigarettes
using the special glue roller necessary for proper fabrication. Some success
was noted using a regular glue roller instead of the special roller. (Test
L-1842C). Additional tests will be made.

II. Coanda Filter

Initial samples from the single-cavity Coanda mold have been received from
Valley Mold Company. It is apparent that the filter wil] not seal properly and
in turn will not exhibit a true Coanda effect. Samples of the filters have been
provided the Research personnel for their evaluation, and we have hand-fabri-
cated cigarettes of three configurations for analytical studies.

After the initial parts from the Coanda mold were evaluated, it was our
opinion as well as Mr. Valley's that the air leakage at the nozzle end pre-
cluded molding this filter according to the first design. In order to success-
fully seal the nozzle, Mr. Valley feels we need to mold this filter as a single
element in an analogous fashion to the prototype he first supplied us. He
agrees that a harder plastic such as polypropylene would be preferable for this
application and will supply us polypropylene parts from the original mold for
our evaluation. We intend to complete our study of the first Coanda filters,
allow time for Research to complete their evaluation, then confer with them
on another design for the filter that may prove applicable. We also need to
confer with Mechanical Development on methods of taking a single element fil-
ter to the plug tube combiner and to the making machine.

III. Smoking Tobacco

Tests are being made to determine the effect of the following changes in
reducing bite of PRINCE ALBERT.

(1) Reducing stem content.

(2) Using stems which have been rolled
thicker.

(3) Reducing stem content and increasing sugar and glycerine
contents.

9988 6L720¢S

(4) Usage of various grades of cocoa including high and
low fat content.

®