ane octane nie A amie MR nage aes

In the interior of the filter, the single orifice has been replaced
with two orifices having the same open area. Also, samples have been
requested in which the two orifices would have 50% more open area. In
another modification, the orifice area will be approximately doubled and
the baffle moved one-third of the linear distance closer to the orifices. .

On April 25, Mr. Earl Valley of the Valley Mold Company visited in

Winston-Salem. The present status of the project was discussed and is
summarized below.

(1) The single cavity mold with the diamond back pattern
and the present core will be completed by the end of
this week.

(2) We requested another core be built for inclusion into
the single cavity mold with the diamond back pattern.
This core will have alternating elements; the first
with the double orifice area increased to 0.0012 square
inches; the second with the double orifice area in-
creased to 0.0015 square inches and the baffles moved
one-third of the linear distance closer to the orifices.
This modification wil] require approximately 10 days
and will cost approximately $900.

(3) The 8-cavity mold with double orifices, straight serra-
tions (18 void) will be completed the middle of next
week. The diamond back patterns for this 8-cavity mold
will be completed May 10, 1968.

(4) We have ordered initially 500,000 parts to be supplied
sequentially as the molds listed above become operable.
Mr. Valley feels they need the experience with the
8-cavity mold regardless of the configuration of the
filter supplied. We in turn need extended running
time on the plug tube combiners regardless of the
configuration supplied. With this schedule, we feel
we can proceed with our development.

(5) It is our opinion that the schedule for the program
has been delayed approximately four weeks. Mr. Valley
can proceed with much of his work on building the
molds while we ascertain the exact configuration we
wish in the filter.

b. Blends for Brothers Filter

The four cigarettes to be developed were discussed in MPDR-T, 1968,
No. 3, and are BLF, BLF Mentholated, BNF and BNF Mentholated.

Blends which are being tested for the BLF cigarettes include the
CAMEL 70, modified CAMEL 70 with G-13 treated burley and modified CAMEL
70 with high nicotine burley. Cigarettes have been made and are now
being evaluated by the smokers’ panel.

h988 6220S