TV. Chewina Tobacco

Tests are under way on DAYS WORK Chewing Tobacco in which liquid
licorice supplied by J. $. Young Company is being evaluated for possible
substitution for the granular product.

V. UNC - Celanese - RJR Cooperative Filter Study.

This program was initiated in this period and to date all of the filters
have been made as well as a substantial part of the cigarettes. Representa-
tives from both UNC and Celanese have visited with us to observe the progress
of the program.

C. LEAF PROCESSING DEVELOPMENT SECTION

The following leaf combinations were made up or tested during the past
month.

I. Burley Combinations

Altering the burley components of WINSTON and CAMEL cigarettes in Tests
HM-50 and HM-51 did not change the nicotine content of the blends or the
smoke from the cigarettes as expected.

Nicotine content of cigarettes made from the WINSTON blends was 1.74%
for regular, 1.75% in the blend in which highest nicotine components were
selected, and 1.63% in the blend in which lowest nicotine components were
selected. Smoke analysis showed 1.32 mg. nicotine per cigarette in all
three blends.

Nicotine content of cigarettes made from the CAMEL blends was 1.78% in
the regular, 1.73% in the blend in which highest nicotine components were ~
selected, and 1.72% in the blend in which lowest nicotine components were
selected. Smoke analysis for nicotine showed 1.45 mg./cigt. for the regular
blend, 1.54 mg./cigt. for the high nicotine blend and 1.49 mg./cigt. for the
low nicotine blend.

The WINSTON and CAMEL cigarettes will be made again and tested after
nicotine analysis reflects the changes.

JI. Turkish Combinations

Cigarettes for Tests HM-135 - HM-140 in which the Turkish components of
WINSTON blend were altered* were smoked again. The panel of smokers found no
significant difference in any of the test cigarettes and regular WINSTONS.
However, combined results from two smoking tests in which HM-139 was compared
with regular WINSTON showed a significant difference. This smoking test is
being repeated.

* by weight percent, nicotine or sugar.

 

 

t

L998 6LZ0S—