Blends being tested for the ENF cigarettes are the WINSTON and
SALEM blends. Preliminary tests using the WINSTON 8&5 blend with
3.3/46,000 filter and non-perforated tipping gave nicotine and TPi
in Smoke approximately equal to WINSTON 85. In a smokers' test made
to compare the BNF cigarette and WINSTON 85, smokers found no dif-
ference in flavor and mildness. Approximately one-third preferred
the Brothers type and two-thirds preferred the regular WINSTON filter
type cigarette.

II. TEMPO Ciaarette

Management has requested the modification of the TEMPO cigarette to
have the following specifications:

TPM, mg./ciqt. 10.5
Nicotine, mg./cigt. 0.7
Cigt. draft, inches 4.0 maximum (preferably 3.8)

Tipping 1 line perforated (30 mms. width)
: with the line of perforations 17 mms.
from the tobacco rod side and 13 mms.
from the mouth side

Tests with the present TEMPO blend which has 50% of the burley denicotinized
gave nicotine in smoke 0.46 mg./cigt. and 9.5 TPM. A test was made in which the
percent of burley denicotinized was reduced from 50 to 20. Cigarettes made from
this tobacco gave 0.55 mg./ciat. A test is now being made in which none of the
tobacco has been denicotinized.

Tests are being made with other blends, casings and top dressings in order
to increase the nicotine content slightly and to provide a better tasting and
more satisfying cigarette.

III. Development of High Filtration Cigarette (Product H)

Cigarettes which met the specifications of the Marketing Department were
discussed in MPDR-T, 1968, No. 3. Samples of ciagarettes and test results have
been submitted to Marketing and ether members of Management. We have received
no comments on these cigarettes.

IV. Encapsulated Flavor Filter Cicarettes —

The cigarettes prepared using the grape and apple flavored capsules were
found to rapidly lose flavor on standing. This was traced to decomposition
or loss of flavoring material from the capsules. These particular capsules
were made using water-based materials encapsulated in a paraffin shell and
represented 3M's first effort for this type of capsule. More stable capsules
of this type are being developed by the 3M Company.

§9e8 6L20S