Fig. 1. A schematic diagram of a decision tree for the estimation of probable toxicity. Assessors should
(a) start with question 1, (b) proceed by ‘no’ < or ™\. ‘yes’, (c) move from any underscored number
encountered to same circled number and (d) proceed to final classes I, II or III. Working downwards
through the tree, the symbols designate the following groupings: biological normality (@ @ @), high
and low toxicity (@-@-@); heterocyclics (——): terpenoids (-.--); aliphatics (~O-O-O): aromatics
{(-O-@-©): alicyclics (---).

Definitions for use with the decision tree

The use of this decision tree and these definitions
presupposes a working familiarity with organic chem-
istry, biochemistry and food chemistry. Even indivi-
duals with a broad knowledge in these areas will find
it useful to consult references such as the Merck Index
(1976) and the ‘Weurman Report’ (Central Institute
for Nutrition and Food Research TNO, 1973), for
detailed information on natural occurrence in food,
and Hawk’s Physiological Chemistry (Oser, 1965).

Users should review these definitions carefully and
refer to them frequently. Because they are fashioned
to serve the needs of this paper, they differ in several
minor, but important, respects from the meanings
commonly attributed to these words and phrases. Ita-
licized key words used in the procedure (pp.
258-263) are followed by a letter, in paren-
thesis, referring to the following definitions:

(A) Aliphatic includes olefinic and polyolefinic, but not

acetylenic or alicyclic compounds.

(B) Aromatic means that the substance has at least one

benzene, furan, thiophene, pyridine or pyrrole ring, how-

ever substituted and whether or not it is fused to another
ring.

(C) Common component of food. In something as diverse,

changing and occasionally uncertain as natural occur-

rence, it is only possible to define a guideline, not a
firm rule. For this decision tree, the term common com-
ponent of food denotes a substance that has been
reported in the recognized literature as occurring in sig-
nificant quantity (approximately 50 ppm or more) in at
least one major food, or in trace quantities at the ppm
level or less in several foods, including minor or less
frequently consumed foods. The latter include spices,
herbs and ethnic specialities. This definition excludes
natural or man-made contaminants, and hormones.
(D) Common terpene means an isoprenoid compound
(carbon skeleton made up of two or more 5-carbon iso-
prene units), reported in the literature as a more than
trace constituent of two or more generally consumed
foods, either raw or as ordinarily prepared for consump-
tion, without added ingredients.

(E) Functional group is a portion (sometimes called a
radical) of an organic molecule consisting of a combina-
tion of atoms of two or more elements (at least one
of which is not hydrogen or carbon) and causing the
molecule to exhibit a characteristic set of reactions. For
the purpose of this classification this definition excludes
carbon-carbon double bonds and aromatic rings.

(F) Normal constituent of the body means any systemic
constituent present at a normal physiological level,
whether free or combined, except hormones. This in-
cludes essential nutrients and major food constituents
and the physiologically normal metabolites of each. It
excludes transitory substances present only as a result

6S9PE800

(aut D Acblodind P-2Y-¥0