If If Examples with

‘no’ ‘yes’ answers
....proceed to....
Question 18 examines the terpenes (and later the open-chain
and mononuclear substances by reference) to determine whether
they contain certain structural features generally thought to be
associated with some enhanced toxicity.
°

5 = CHyCCH,
19. Is the substance open chain (GY 23 OO eteiscoye

Questions 19-21 deal with open-chain substances.

NO YES

(23) (20)
20. Is the structure a linear or simply branched (1) aliphatic (A) 22 Qi) ? 9 ne
compound containing any one or combination of only the follow- CHSCCH2CHCCHy CH3CCOH
ing functional groups (E): (a) four or less, each, of alcohol, alde- NO YES
hyde, carboxylic acid or esters and/or (b) one each of one or more (22) (21)

of the following: acetal, either ketone or ketal but not both, mer-
captan, sulphide (mono- or poly-), thioester, polyoxyethylene
[((—OCH,CH,—), with x no greater than 4], or primary or ter-
tiary amine?
This question should be answered ‘yes’ if the structure contains
one or any possible combination of alcoholic, aldehydic or carboxy-
lic acid or ester groups, provided there are no more than four of
any one kind. It should be answered ‘yes’ if the structure contains
in addition to, or instead of, those just listed, any assortment of
no more than one each of the following: acetal, either ketone or
ketal but not both, mercaptan, mono- or polysulphide, thioester,
polyoxyethylene, primary or tertiary amine. Answer the question
‘no’ if the structure contains more than four of any of the first
set of groups, more than one of the second set, or any substituent

not listed.

21. Does the structure contain three or more different types of (i) Hl ons

functional groups (exclude methoxy and consider acids and esters CH{CO,CqHy = CHe

as one functional type)? CHsCO2ECO2CaHy s
Aliphatic (A) compounds containing three or more different func- CH2CO2C4Hg He
tional groups (excluding methoxy) are too complex to permit satis- CH2
factory prediction of toxicity. They should go, therefore, into class H—C—Nh2.
III. However, we do not wish to put into class HI polyesters and CO,H
similar substances, so these and the methoxy compounds get passed NO YES
along to question 18. (18) (Class HI)

22. Is the substance a common component of food (C) or structur- 33 Il

ally closely related (K) to a common component of food (C)? Ce on fl on
This question places in class II the natural, nature-identical and : CXL
nearly nature-identical substances not already put into class I by O~ ~CH2CH,
physiological occurrence or structural criteria. An artificial (i.e. non- NO YES
nature-identical) substance, or one not closely related, goes to (33) (Class
question 33. II)

23. Is the substance aromatic (B)? 24 27 Jy Zo °

|
Questions 23-26 deal with alicylic substances. Ss
NO YES
(24) (27)

24. Is the substance monocarbocyclic (excluding cyclopropane 25 18 i i

or cyclobutane and their derivatives) with ring or aliphatic (A) cr

side chains, unsubstituted or containing only alcohol, aldehyde,

side-chain ketone, acid, ester, or sodium, potassium or calcium NO YES

sulphonate or sulphamate, or acyclic acetal or ketal? (25) (18)

OLSPES00