of (a) trace constituents of food, (b) gut contents or (c)
products of the actions of the gut flora.
(G) Open chain means the absence of any ring structure.
(H) Readily hydrolysed means known to be or, in the
absence of any contra-indication based on structure.
assumed to be hydrolysed either during food prep-
aration or by physiological processes after consumption.
(1) Simply branched means branched at C-C bonds, with
branches of two or more C atoms, at not more than
two points along the main chain, with no secondary
branching. Multiple branching. consisting only of !-car-
bon moieties, falls within this definition of simply
branched.
(J) Sterically hindered means posing steric hindrance to
a functional group equivalent to or greater than that
exhibited by o-tert-butyl or 2,6-disubstitution on an aro-
matic ring.
(K) Seructurally closely related means
(a) a member, not more than two carbon atoms
removed, in a homologous series, except ethoxy and
higher homologues of a methoxy compound;
(b) a primary alcohol and its aldehyde, or either of
these and the corresponding carboxylic acid;
(c) a secondary alcohol and the corresponding ketone:
(d) structural isomers unlikely to involve steric hin-
drance of a functional group:

(e) compounds with the same functional groups, the
remainder of the compound being known to be easily
and harmlessly metabolized:
(f) non-sterically hindered esters. thioesters. acetals.
ketals and their components.

Procedure for the decision tree

In the light of the chemical structure of the sub-
Stance and using the accompanying definitions,
answer the following questions, moving in the order
indicated by the question numbers in the ‘no’ or ‘yes’
colunins until a classification—I, II, or III—is
reached. In borderline cases, choose IT in preference
to I, and HI in preference to II. In cases where a
structure is subdivided into individual residues, clas-
sify the whole structure according to the most conser-
vative classification of the separate residues. In treat-
ing functional groups, consider the entire group, not
the individual fragments (e.g. a thioamide, RCSNH,,
ts a thioamide not a thione and an amine; a hydrazine,
RNHNH,, is not two amines: an anhydride is not
an ether and two vicinal ketones).'

Examples with answers

If If (and following step or
‘no’ yes” classification)
“proceed to.... NH,
1. Is the substance a normal constituent of the body (F) or an 2) I aM na
optical isomer of such? a . 4
This question throws into class I all normal constituents of body NO oN
tissues and fluids, including normal metabolites. Hormones are 4
excluded, as are, by implication, the metabolites of environmental NO YES
and food contaminants or those resulting from disease states. (2) (Class I)
2. Does the substance contain any of the following functional Ts) HH NO,

groups: an aliphatic (A) secondary amine or a salt thereof, cyano,
N-nitroso, diazo (e.g. CH,N2), triazeno (RN==NNH,) or qua-
ternary nitrogen, except in any of the following forms:
>C=N*R;, >C=N*H; or the hydrochloride or sulphate salt
of a primary or tertiary amine?
‘Questions 2, 3 and 4 are a means of placing in class III those
structures that contain elements or valency states often associated
with enhanced toxicity. Halo-, nitro-, N-nitroso- and diazo- com-
pounds, organophosphates, quaternary nitrogen compounds
{although note modifying comment), and similar xenobiotic struc-
tures should cause ‘yes’ answers to questions 2 and 3 and a ‘no’
answer to question 4.

3. Does the structure contain elements other than carbon, hydro-
gen, oxygen, nitrogen or divalent sulphur?

4. Do all elements not listed in question 3 occur only as (a)
a sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium or ammonium salt
of a carboxylic acid, or (b) a sulphate or hydrochloride of an
amine, or (c) a sodium, potassium or calcium sulphonate, sulpha-
mate or sulphate? (If the answer is yes, treat as the free acid,
amine, unsulphonated or unsulphated compound, except for the
purposes of questions 24 and 33, and proceed.)

This is intended to let through, for further consideration, certain

acid, amine, sulphonate and sulphate salts. Sulphamate salts are

treated as such because they are not readily hydrolysed.

Me? CH)=CHCH,N=C=S a
. t

NO YES
(3) (Class
Hy
‘5 ) 4 s
wa CH,CNH, CHCty
NO YES
(5) (4)
Til 7 CHCl, NHSO Na
O
NO YES
(Class (7
IID}

-099PE800