if if Examples with

‘no’ ‘yes” answers
... proceed to...
5. Is it a simply branched (I) acyclic aliphatic (A) hydrocarbon (6) T chic = ¢ —CICHy), Yylose
or a common carbohydrate?
This drops out the generally innocuous hydrocarbons and carbo- NO YES
hydrates. (6) (Class
})
6. Is the substance a benzene derivative bearing substituents con- G) TW ogy oy
sisting only of (a) hydrocarbon chains or 1’-hydroxy or hydroxy Z ocH, a?
ester-substituted hydrocarbon chains and (b) one or more alkoxy 1 | in ios
groups, one of which must be para to the hydrocarbon chain S Sv
in (a)? CH,CH=CH, CH,CH=CH2
. . . _., NO YES
This places in class II safrole. myristicin and related substances, (7) (Class II)

2

. °
7. Is the substance heterocyclic? 8 P~CHe
O CH,CH tu

‘oS
CH,0H
NO YES
(16) (8)
- ge 0
8. Is it a lactone or cyclic diester? 10 9 ¢ ro Mayon
This question separates the lactones and cyclic diesters from other . OH Ne
heterocyclic compounds. ° 0 0
NO YES
(10) (9)

. . . *
9. Is it a lactone fused to another ring, or a five- or six-membered Wl o-es en,

«,B-unsaturated lactone?

: : 0
This places certain lactones known or Suspected to be of unusual NO YES
toxicity in class III.

 

(23) (Class
IIE)
*if it is a lactone, from this point on treat the structure as if
it were the hydroxy acid in the form of its more stable tautomer
and proceed to question 20 if it is open chain, to 10 if it is
heterocyclic and to 23 if it is carbocyclic; if it is a cyclic diester
treat as the separate components. °
. ZA Eo eHeOH
10. Is j 1 mf SiC} en,
. Is it a 3-membered heterocycle? 0” eS
This places such substances as the epoxides and ethylenimine in YES
class HHT. NO (Class
(11) III)
11. Disregarding only the heteroatoms in any one ring, does 12 33 Q
that heterocyclic ring contain or bear substituents other than “7 ™ SCH,
simply branched (1) hydrocarbons (including bridged chains and
monocyclic aryl or alkyl structures), alkyl alcohois, aldehydes,
acetals, ketones, ketals, acids, esters (including cyclic esters other
than lactones), mercaptans, sulphides, methyl ethers, hydroxy or NO YES
Single rings (hetero or aryl) with no substituents other than those (12) (33)

just listed?
Questions 11-15 separate out various categories of heteroaromatic
substances. Under 11, set aside and do not consider the atom(s),
usually oxygen, nitrogen or sulphur, making the ring heterocyclic.
If there is more than one hetero ring, regard each ring separately,
with the remainder of the structure as substituents of that hetero
ring. Other than the heterocyclic atom(s), does the ring carry any-
thing besides the simple groups listed? If so, the answer is ‘yes”

899PE800