(

Serum Proteins and Proteiri Electrephoretic
Pattern in Normal Pygmy Goats

A. Castro, PhD; D. S. Dhindsa, BVSc&AH, PhD; A. S. Hoversland, PhD; J. Metcalfe, MD

SUMMARY

The values of total protein and
protein electrophoretic patterns for
Ppyemy gosts were studied to eatab-
lish normal basic values. The values
obtained in the present study were
es follows: a:-globulin, 06 =
0.1 mg/dl; o-globulin, 1.0 = 0.3
mg/d}; @-globulin, 0.6 = 0.1 mg/dl;
y-globulin, 1.6 = 0.1 mg/dl; total
protein, 7.3 + 0.7 mg/dl; albumin,
3.2 + 0.6 mg/d); a/a ratio, 0.8 +
0.3 mg/dl; and globulin, 4.5 + 0.6
mg/dl.

Goats were divided into groups
on the basis of age and sex to deter-
mine if any sienifirant differences
were present in these groups. Of the

variables studied, only albumin
and 4/G ratio showed significantly
different values due te sex; castrated
males showed significantly lower
values than those for intact males
and females (P < 0.05). Also, a/c
ratio values for females and cas-
trated maie pygmy goats were sig-
nificantly Jower than those for in-
tact males (P < 0.05). Total serum
protein values studied in female
pygmy goats at various ages were
also significantly different (P <
0.05).

Pygmy goats, a mirdature strain
indigenous to Africa, possess several

 

Received for publication June 1, 3976.

From the University of Misr). School of Mud:
teins, Departmen of Pathology, Miami, Fi 39296
(Castro); and the University of Oregon Mesjth Sci-
enor Center, Hurl Reesarch Leboretory. Depert-
spect of Medicis, Portland, Or 97201 ¢0hincas,
Hoverslend. end Metceiie). Dr. Dhindss ie pres-
ently Executive Secretary of the Reproductive Bi-

“agy Susdv Section, National Institutes of Health,

thaada, Ml Dr. Hoversiond is preeentiv Choate.

wen of the Department of Asmal Scemrex. Cal-
stornla Biste Unversity. Freano. Ca
Supported in pert by Grant No. 864M tron the
Counri) of Tohero Research, USA. Lpe.
Addrema reprist requests te Dy. Cestro.

May, 1977

desirable attributes which make
them an attractive and appropriate
imodel for use in biological investiga-
tion." To use any animal model
for clinical studies, it is important
to establish certain base lines. In
the past 15 years, investigations
have been carried out in several
areas af these physiologic functions,
e.g., cardiovascular studies,* repro-
duction,° thyroid function,? and se-
Tum electrolytes.’ At present, infor-
imation is not available on serum
proteins. ‘The present investigation
was carried out to establish base
lines for total serum protein and
electrophoretic patterns of serum
proteins.

Materials ond Methods

The colony of pygmy goats under in-
vestigation was established in 1964
at the University of Oregon Medical
School (now the University of Oregon
Health Sciences Center) with the pur-
chase of foundation animals from zoo-
logical suppliers.’ The animale had no
access to succulent green feed. Diets
eslublished as nutritionally adequate
for other goats were used since nutei-
tional requirements for pygmy goats
have not been determined. The adult
goats were given sun-cured alfalfa
pellets fed ad libitum; fresh water and
an iodized salt block were always
available.

_ Nonpregnant female, castrated male,

and intact male pygmy goats, ranging
trom less than 1 te 6 years of age were
Studied. All goats were in good health
dt the time of blood sample collection.
They were divided into groups on the
basis of age and sex to determine the
presence of any significant differences
within the groups.

Blood samples were collected in
early morning into tubes (partial
vacuum), containing no anticoagalant.
Precautions were taken to prevent
hemolysis. Samples were kept at room
temperature until centrifugation. After
centrifugation, the serum was trans-
ferred to sterile vials and kept frozen
at —20 C until analyzed.

The micro-Kjeldahl method” was

PUBLICATIONS

10326240

14E§

used for determination of tatal protein
concentrations in the serums. Approxi-
mately 4-:1 samples were fractionated
by electrophoresis on 13.0- by 2.5-cm
paper strips in a 0.07 Mf barbital buffer
(pH 86) with g current of 0.4 to 0.5
mA/em width for 4 to 5 hours. The
proteins were stained with ponceau-S,
and the strips scanned by a double-
reflectance method with a densitome-
ter.”

Electrophoretic separation of serum
proteins was accomplished by utilizing
A modification of the paper electro-
phoresis system. A durrum-type, hang-
ing strip ‘cell which holds eight 3 by
20-cm paper strips and a power source*
were used. Sérum samples (0.01 ml)
were separated on Whatmann 3-mm
filter paper strips, using a barbital buf-
for onl RK with OOFK innir atrenoth
A 3-mA current was maintained for 11
hours. The strips were then removed,
dried, and stained for proteins with
bromepheno! blue; cleared, dried, and
read on a recording scanner and ins
tegrator.’’ Annlysea were repeated un-
til duplicate samples ogreed within
3%. Reproducibility was satisfactory.

Significant differences between
group means based on sex and age
were determined by using Student’a
test for unequal sample size. A com-
parison was considered significant if P
values were less than, or equal to, 0.05.

Results

The average alpha-1 globulin
for female pygmy goats was 0.6 +
0.4 mg/dl. The comparable value
for intact males was 0.7 + 0.1 mg/
al, and for castrated moles, 0.7 =
0.05 mg/dl. The difference in a/c
values between females aged 3 to 4
years and < 1 year were signif-
icantly different (P < 0.05; Tables
1 and 2).

The alpha-2 globulin values for
female pygmy goats (1.0 = 04
me/dl), intact males (0.9 + 0.1

 

*Chromoscan druiloweter, Beckman Instro-
tenia, Ine, Fuiletion, Ca.

*Ssinro Duostat. Beckman Intinupenta, Loc,
Fuberton, Co

* Anslyircl, Beckman Instrumeots, Lac, Fuller
too. Co.

665

007431