Ce’
or, U

by,
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPOND E®

9S
: * os rn
Chester, Virginia 6 ay
7 : “hg \ \
To: Ms. Dawn Saunde Date: May 18, 1992
From: Denise Donaher

Subject: Wiegand Evaporator Evaluation Status - 5/18/92

Turbofan operation

Fan vibration was monitored relative to daily fan washes and
results indicate that the spray nozzle does reduce turbofan
vibration in some cases. For example, on 5/14 fan vibration
decreased from 5.7 mm/sec to 3.7 mm/sec after the fan was cleaned.
Investigation work is continuing to assess the feasibility of
caustic or citric spray to the fan and to determine the need for
surge protection in our system.

Cleaning of the Evaporator

Lab services is in the process of setting up new test methods for
* acid and % caustic using the automatic titrator at Bermuda
Hundred. _ A test. request has. been-.completed to begin baseline’
testing. However, due to the Memorial Day shutdown and CIP
schedules, the sampling has been delayed and is estimated to begin
on 5/29.

A detailed review of the citric acid product data sheets and
material safety data sheets has revealed that there are some
potentially significant differences between Nalco, Chemtreat, and
Industrial citric acids. The Nalco and Chemtreat citric acids
appear to be a blend of citric acid with other dispersing agents
while Industrial citric contains only citric acid. Samples will be
pulled for further evaluation.

In order to further determine the source and amount of particulate
materials in the system, plans are to open the top of the
evaporator and clean/inspect the distribution plates prior to a
CIP, immediately after a CIP, and three days later prior to the
next CIP. This evaluation will be conducted as
production/maintenance schedules allow.

Liquor distribution/Tube Wetting

Baseline solubles testing of the individual passes was conducted
from 4/29 through 5/7. The results are summarized in the attached
table. Each set of data represents the time between a CIP. The
results indicate very repeatable performance of each pass. The
results are being evaluated relative to the number of tubes in each
pass. Similar testing will be conducted on a monthly basis to
monitor the process for changes.

xC: Barfield, Bullock, Long, Saunders, Sharkey, Thomas

«031562974