vee ee ee ne ee ee ee etn eine #e “ 4

State of Immunity
And Personality
Tied to Cancer

Medical Tribune Report
CAREFREE, ARiIz.—The role of the emo-
tional state in association with malignant
disease has recently been sharpened to an
extent that enables a delineation of the
“cancer-prone personality.”

And what ultimately makes him sus-
ceptible to cancer may be a psychologi-
cally triggered alteration in his immune
defense.

Both views, and some supporting ex-
periments, were reported here at the 13th
annual Science Writers Seminar of the
American Cancer Society.

The personality sketch was described by
Claus Bahnson, Ph.D., senior research
scientist at the Eastern Pennsylvania Psy-
chiatric Institute in Philadelphia, who for
more than 10 years has been testing and
interviewing hundreds of cancer patients
for comparison with normal persons and,
more recently, with coronary patients and

Medical Tribune
May 5, 1971

patients with a variety of other somatic
diseases.

In general, he said, the cancer patient
represses all unpleasant “affect states,”
such as anxiety, depression, hostility, or
guilt, much more effectively than nor-
mals or other sick persons do. As might
be deduced from that, the cancer pa-
tient feels the least stress in his job, re-
cent stress of any kind, or psychic
anxiety and is furthest from the “pat-
tern A” associated with myocardial in-
farction (competitive, restless, anxiety-
laden).

From childhood the typical cancer pa-
tient recalls a life that was “bleak and un-
satisfying,” remembering mother as un-
loving and unprotecting and father as un-
protecting and undemanding. The upshot
is a person who conforms to social norms,
living “a formal, realistic, and common-
sense—oriented effective social and family
life unrelated to his basic needs for affec-
tion, warmth, and personal creativity.”

“The cancer patient is a nice guy,” Dr.
Bahnson said, and has great difficulty deal-
ing with or expressing anger.

Subjected to statistical analysis, the
“projection score” data on cancer patients
compared with normals and patients with
other ills indicated the cancer patients’ re-
pression of emotions was significantly
greater than normals for all indices and
greater than that of any other patient in all
indices except guilt, where there was no
meaningful difference between cancer,
coronary, and other sick patients.

Dr. Bahnson said he currently is work-
ing with cancer specialists and immunolo-
gists in an effort to pin down a relationship
between affect and stress states and im-
mune reactions in cancer patients com-
pared with normals. As it stands now, -he
said, on a purely empiric basis it should be
possible to screen psychologically a ran-
dom group of people and accomplish a 30
per cent improvement in forecasting
which members of the group are most
likely to develop cancer.

GyrZ Tole