irst of
olving
ratory
r auto

being
1.

42 by
sed in
ctheme
ists of

irrors
. their
of the
‘Tor is
cr was
ature.
ff the
imTors
irror,
. The

 

 

Long-path infrared spectroscopy for air pollution research 189

small mirror in turn reflects the beam to fill the second large mirror. This mirror then forms
an image of the source just off the edge of the small mirror so that the beam exists from the
cell. Four passes are thus shown in Fig. I(a).

Entrance
image

 

TT
i 7/5/35
IN

Centers of curvature
of large mirrors

Fic. 2. Small mirror with thirty-five images (216 m path length)

By decreasing the separation between the centers of curvature of the two large mirrors
(i.e., decreasing the angle between their surfaces) any integral multiple of four passes can be
obtained. This is shown in Fig. 2 where thirty-five images appear on the small mirror.
The numbers in Fig. 2 give the order in which the images are formed. In practice the path
length is determined by counting the number of images on the small mirrors, multiplying
by two, then adding two to account for the entrance and exit passes. These thirty-five
images correspond to seventy-two passes of the beam through the cell. With a base path-
length of 3 m (i.e., radius of curvature of mirrors = 3 m) seventy-two passes corresponds
to a total path-length of 216 m. .

The distance between the centers of curvature shown in Fig. 2 is equal to half the separa-
ration between successive even-numbered (or odd-numbered) images. As these centers are
brought closer together the odd-numbered images move to the right while the even-
numbered images move to the left, with higher-numbered images moving most rapidly.
The former exit image then falls on the mirror and is reflected to form a new odd-numbered
image on the lower left. This new image is in turn reflected to the upper right to form a new
exit image. As the centers grow even closer, image No. 2 finally begins to over-step the
edge of the mirror so that image 3 and all succeeding images become progressively narrower
as the number of images is increased.

It is apparent that when many images are desired the edges of the small mirror which are
adjacent to the entrance and exit images must be straight, parallel, only lightly bevelled,
coated to the edge, and not obstructed by mirror mounts. Another critical feature is that
the line joining the centers of curvature of the two large mirrors must be perpendicular to
these entrance and exit images at the small mirror. If it is not, the rows of images will be
tilted either up or down parallel to this line. When the horizontal separation between
centers is small (i.e., at long path-lengths), a small vertical displacement of one of these
centers will exaggerate the tilt of the rows of images and may throw the exit image far out
of line.