188 E. R. STepHEeNns

Two quite similar cells were constructed using a base path length of 3 m. The first of O small mir
these was completed in 1955 and used to study the important chemical reactions involving € an Image
air pollutants. The second instrument, completed in 1956, was installed in a laboratory cell. Fou:

trailer and taken to southern California. It was used both for air analysis and for auto
exhaust studies and is now at the University of California, Riverside, where it is being
used in connection with studies of plant damage and eye irritation from air pollution.

REFLECTION SYSTEM
Both instruments are based on the multiple reflection system first described in 1942 by
John White and later modified by Herzberg and Bernstein. © This system is also used in
the 10-meter cell offered commercially by the Perkin-Elmer Corporation. The basic scheme
can be understood by reference to Figs. 1 and 2. The internal mirror system consists of

center of
smatt mirror

Smait
mirror

  
 
   

Monachromator
entrance slit

   

 

      
 

 
    
 
     
  
 

  
   

By dec
Externe! Centers of curvature <
sphericel of large mirrors (i.e., decr
mirrors Large obtained
mirrors *
(a) From above; 4 passes The num
~ length is
by two, 1
Centers of curvature ” images eC
of large mirrors € iC ) length of
to a total
a The dis
: | ration be
. brought
‘ I s and =

cane Source imeges ong numberec
spherice. . Large’ The form
mirrors (b) Side view mirrors image on
Fic. 1. Optical path in the multiple-reflection cell (not to scale) exit imag
edge of tl
three spherical mirrors, all of which have equal radii of curvature. Two are large mirrors as the au
(cut from 124 in. diameter blanks) and are mounted at the right end of the cell with their “an is ap
centers of curvatures on the surface of the smaller spherical mirror at the left end of the a ee
cell, as shown by the small circles in Fig. 1. The center of curvature of this small mirror is i” at to
between the two large mirrors and in the plane of their surfaces. The small mirror was the ine ji
cut from the side of one of the large mirrors to insure that it would have the same curvature. u hed ene
An external spherical mirror forms an image of the source (a Nernst glower) just off the ulted ext
. * . S$
edge of the small mirror. The beam then diverges to fill the first of the two large mirrors centers 18
at the right end of the cell. This mirror forms an image, on the surface of the small mirror, celine w

of line.

symmetrically placed about the center of curvature of this large mirror (see Fig. 2). The