194 E. R. STEPHENS

commercially by the Perkin-Elmer Corporation utilize this same optical system with € C :
R = 1m. The scale expansion systems of modern double-beam spectrometers makes it -
possible to attain effective path lengths of hundreds of meters.

co, AND H,O INTERFERENCE

Experience with these cells has shown that atmospheric water vapor and carbon dioxide
do not prohibit useful atmospheric analysis although they do make some regions of the”
infrared spectrum unusable and are a nuisance in others.

The spectrum as it appears with several hundred meters of air of normal humidity is as
follows: Absorption is total in the carbon dioxide and water bands at about 2-9 » but the
air is sufficiently transparent at 3-4 » so that weak CH absorption can be detected. This is
especially true if a calcium fluoride prism is used. The region from 3-4 to about 3-9, where
characteristic aldehyde absorptions appear, is completely free of water and carbon dioxide
absorptions. Absorption is total in the 4- 3-micron band of carbon dioxide but the atmos-
phere is sufficiently transparent to reveal the carbon monoxide band at 4- 66 x. The absorp-
tion of naturally occurring nitrous oxide at 4-5 » cannot be seen unless some of the atmos-
pheric carbon dioxide is removed. The carbonyl region is opaque at hundreds of meters
path-length but some energy is detectable in the center of the 6-micron water band. Between
about 7-2 and § p usable energy is transmitted although the water band is still strong.
Between 8 and 9 »« the water band is troublesome but not a serious interference. The region
9-12 y, Where ozone, methanol, formic acid, ethylene, higher olefins, and many other
absorbers have their strongest bands, is nearly free of interfering absorptions. With the
trailer laboratory it was possible to identify and measure ozone in the Los Angeles atmos-
phere at concentrations down to 0-2 p.p.m.@ Beyond 12 u the water and carbon dioxide
bands gradually increase in strength. The strong and characteristic acetylene band at 13-74
is about the last useful band detectable. The 15-micron carbon dioxide band makes the -
air opaque bevend about 14 pz. € ( |

 

es MECHANICAL DESIGN

The laboratory and trailer cells differ somewhat in mechanical design. The two ends of
the laboratory cell were mounted on separate frames and bolted into a concrete floor. This
permitted complete alignment of the optical system after which an 18-in. diameter stainless
steel tube could be rolled into place between the two ends. This system could be evacuated
and filled with cvlinder oxygen for photochemical experiments. For these experiments a
high pressure mercury arc was used as light source.

In the trailer instrument the entire optical system is mounted on an iron framework.
The 20-in. diameter body of the cell is bolted to this framework and has a flange at either
end. The internal cell mirrors are mounted on gimbals bolted to these flanges as illustrated
in Figs. 5 and 6. Adjustment of the large mirrors is quite critical. since these have an
effective lever arm equal to the total path-length. As already mentioned, a small vertical
separation of ihe centers of curvature will cause the rows of images on the small mirror to
tilt. A small change in the horizontal separation of centers will change the path-length.
Such changes can be caused by temperature changes in the murror mounts.

The trailer instrument is also provided with artificial ultraviolet radiation to simulate
sunlight. This is provided by eight “blacklite” fluorescent lamps mounted within the cell. Facing F
When the interior surface of the stainless steel cell was polished these lamps provided