Infrared Physics, 1961, Vol. 1, pp. 187-196. Pergamon Press Ltd., Printed in Great Britain.

LONG-PATH INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY FOR AIR
POLLUTION RESEARCH

E. R. STEPHENS*

Franklin Institute Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

 

(Received 30 September 1960)

Abstract—Two long-path absorption cells have been designed and built for the measurement
of gaseous contaminants in the atmosphere and for the laboratory study of reactions occurring
in such atmospheres. These instruments are based on the White multiple-reflection system,
having two large mirrors of 3 m radius of curvature at one end of the cell and a smaller mirror
of the same radius at the other end.

To avoid excessive losses of radiant energy, the image of the infrared source is magnified and
demagnified to match the cell to the spectrometer. Optimum path for maximum absorption
signal is reached when reflection losses reduce the energy to i/e of its initial value. This cor-
responds to a path length of 120 m with the present cells although they have been successfully
used at paths several times this length. It is possible to detect and identify many contaminants
of importance in air pollution at concentrations of a few tenths of a part per million. The
absorptions of water vapor and carbon dioxide make some regions of the spectrum opaque,
but this interference is not serious over most of the spectrum.

The first of these cells was used for laboratory studies in Philadelphia and the second was
mounted in a laboratory trailer and taken to southern California where it has been in use
since 1956 for the study of the atmosphere and related problems.

     

C ONE of the most serious problems encountered in air pollution research is that of obtaining
adequate analytical methods. Often one must try to analyze a complex mixture whose
composition can only be guessed and in which the components of interest are present in
very minute amounts. Chemical methods applied to such a problem suffer from the short-
coming that serious interferences may be caused by components whose presence is not only
unknown but unsuspected. An example of this is the potassium iodide method used to
measure “oxidant” in the Los Angeles atmosphere. Although most of the so-called “oxi-
dant” is believed to be ozone, the question of how much of it might be other oxidizing
agents is still unresolved.

To meet the need for more specific analytical methods for the many substances of interest
in air pollution. the Franklin Institute Laboratories have been developing the technique of
long-path infrared absorption spectroscopy.

The primary interest in this work, which is sponsored by the Smoke and Fumes Com-
mittee of the American Petroleum Institute, has always been the chemistry of air pollution
rather than optics, spectroscopy, or analytical methods per se. For this reason, previous
publications") have emphasized the results of reaction studies and described only
superficially the instrumentation used. This paper is written in the belief that more details
of the long-path infrared technique may be of interest.

reseeyeots eee

AOL RESETS Oat Caate REE,

* Now with Scart Research Laboratories, P.O. Box 66, Perkasie, Pennsylvania.

. 187-