192 E. R. STEPHENS

per cent. The optimum path-length can be derived by considering the amount of radiant
power (P,) removed from the beam at a given wavelength by an absorber present at a given
concentration.

Then P. —_ PyKr-t (1 — e7keRn)
where Py = radiant power of the beam without absorption and without losses that depend
on path-length.

Kk = effective reflection coefficient of mirrors inside the cell

n = number of passes through cell
k = absorptivity of the absorber
¢ = concentration of the absorber

R = base path (distance between mirrors)
For weak absorptions

1 —e*eRn =~ keRn

This approximation has only a minor effect on the result but simplifies the derivation
somewhat.

 

Then Py = P)oK"1kcRn
P
a) — Kn-1
Pyke Ke“ Rn

If the noise in the beam is small compared with the noise in the detecting system, then
the optimum path-length will be that which makes P, a maximum. Setting the derivative
of P,'’Pokc with respect to m equal to zero produces the condition:

K" = Il/e

Thus the optimum path has been reached when the energy is reduced by reflection losses
to e~! of its initial value. In Fig. 4 P,/Poke is plotted against the number of reflections for
three different base path-lengths and a reflection coefficient of 0-975. In comparing these
curves it should be recognized that several assumptions must be made viz.: (1) the energy
carried by the cell without reflection losses or absorption is the same (i.e., Po is the same)
for each value of base-length; (2) the sources are equally bright; (3) no consideration has
been given to the spectrometer, the scanning time, resolution, time constant, etc. This
treatment only considers the nature of the infrared beam given to the spectrometer for
measurement.

It is apparent in Fig. 4 that performance of a multiple reflection cell decreases rather
rapidly after the maximum is passed. Other things being equal the absorption signal is
directly proportional to base path-length. Further calculation shows that a small increase
in reflection coefficient would displace this optimum path-length toward the right and
would lead to a marked improvement in cell performance.

It may also be noted that the presence of interfering absorbers (¢.g., water vapor) in both
the sample and blank will have the same effect as increased reflection losses. This will
reduce the number of reflections and path-length for maximum absorption signal (i.e.,
shift the peaks of Fig. 4 to the left).

C

C

()

er