adiant
| given

lepend

vation

on, then
ivative

1 losses
ons for
g these
energy
: same)
on has
c. This
ter for

rather
gnal is
ncrease
ht and

in both
iis will
al (i.e.,

CC

€ ©

 

Long-path infrared spectroscopy for air pollution research 193

50

  

40

30
Bose path-1-5m \y

Base poth-3m

20

Absorption signal, (P,/P, kc)

x,
10 a Base oN
e
“

x

° 20 40° 60 80 100 {20 140 160

Number of reflections (n)

Fic. 4. Theoretical performance of Jong-path cells (reflection coefficient = 0-975)

Reflection coefficient can readily be measured by measuring the radiant powergtrans-
mitted by the cell as a function of the number of reflections. The coefficient is then obtained
from the slope of a plot of log radiant power vs. number of reflections. The internal mirrors
in both cells originally were coated with gold by evaporation to provide a surface which
combines reflectivity in the infrared with chemical inertness. The reflection coefficient was
found to be 0-975 at the peak of the glower and at 9-6 u. The standard aluminum-silicon
monoxide coating was avoided because of the pronounced absorption of the silicon
monoxide after many reflections. Later the gold was replaced with uncoated aluminum
which proved just as reflective and more durable than the gold. No significant corrosion
problems have been encountered.

In spite of the existence of an optimum path length for maximum absorption signal it
has sometimes been found advisable to operate with a path length far in excess of the
optimum. To make a weak absorption measurable at the optimum path would require
depression of the zero so that only a portion of the transmission range is recorded (e.g.
75-100 per cent). But then the signal from a single-beam instrument with uncontrolled slits
would quickly go off scale as the spectrum is scanned. Furthermore, if the sample contains
water or carbon dioxide the bands of these compounds will go off scale if the zero is
depressed.

Several double-beam systems have been constructed since these single-beam cells were
built. These go a long way toward solving these problems. The 40-meter cells now offered

 

i