190 E. R. STEPHENS

Several interesting variations of this system may be mentioned. Suppose the entrance
image is made narrower and the centers of curvature of the large mirrors are both moved
upward to a horizontal line drawn through the centers of the upper row of images (see
Fig. 2). This upper row of images will not move but the lower row (odd-numbered images)
will move upward to nest alternately between the even-numbered images. This is the
arrangement first described by White. ©) Another possibility would be to extend the surface
of the small mirror to reflect the exit image back to form a new odd-numbered image at the
lower left corner which could then be cut away to make this a new exit image placed directly
below the entrance image; or these two modifications could be combined so that the en-
trance and exit images are adjacent to each other.

OPTICAL DESIGN

In order to record infrared spectra at long path-length the optics of the cell had to be
designed rather carefully to avoid excessive loss of radiant energy. Both cells are used with
Perkin-Elmer single-beam double-pass spectrometers having an effective aperture of
f/4-5. A multiple-reflection cell with this aperture and a three-meter base path-length would
require mirrors several feet in diameter. To keep this requirement within bounds it was
necessary to magnify the image of the source by means of the spherical mirror used to reflect
the beam into the cell. This limits the divergence of the beam inside the cell and makes it
possible to use mirrors cut from 12} in. diameter blanks.

To determine the size of the various mirrors the system was traced regarding the prism
itself as the limiting aperture. A formula was derived which determines how large the beam
on the large mirrors must be in order to just fill the spectrometer aperture (see Appendix)

H=R{5+ wlete(e+s—a)

5

where H = height (or width) of beam on large mirror inside cell
R = distance between internal mirrors (base path)
£ = slit height (or width)
.\f = magnification of image (image size in cell/image size on entrance slit)

P = prism height (or width)

Z = distance from parabolic mirror to prism plus twice the distance from the
prism to the Littrow mirror

F = focal length of monochromator parabolic mirror

S = distance from monochromator slit to external spherical mirror.

This formula shows that the size of the beam on the large mirror depends not only on
the magnification M but on the absolute value of the distance between the monochromator
entrance slit and the external spherical mirror S. These relationships are plotted in Fig. 3
which shows the requisite height and width of the beam on the large mirror to fill the
prism with light from the ends of the entrance slit (extreme ray) and from the center of the
slit (ceniral ray). This graph was an aid in selecting the parameters of the cell. A magnifica-
tion of four was chosen with a slit-to-mirror distance, S, of about 400 mm so that the
extreme ray could be carried by a mirror 12$ in. high. The small width of the beam permitted
cutting off the sides to make a more compact system and to provide pieces of the same
radius of curvature for the small mirror.

CO

lars
opt
If t
Wh
enti
can
ima

A
fors
placi
on t]
exit °

of th
be ac
a lar
chro:
diagi

the p
reduc
reduc
in th