PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
Corporate Affairs U.S.A.

Publication: The Detroit News, Detroit, MI
Circulation: 651,000:
Date: November 20, 1986 _

Fighting fire with fire at Smokeout

‘Light up,’ urges
cigaret firm’s kit

By Laura D. Varon
Newa Staft Water

Lighten up, novsenohers! That's tha mersage for tbe day
from Philip Morna U.S_A., the country's No. 1 cigaret
maker.

As « prebids to today’s 10th ennual Great. American
Smokeout, sponeormd by the American: Cancer. Suciety,
Philip Morris U.S.A beld a neww conference Wednesday in
Washington via satellite to 13 cities, including Detroit, and
introduced the “Great American Smokers Kit.”

Guy LG. Sruth IV, kearman fue Philip Morris U.S.A,
said the campaign is ai at helping smukere wae preier

to abun the amokeoul:

*More than 60-million Americans whe amoke will he
getting « lot of attention today. theu choice to amuke will bie
questioned, challenged: and! even forbidden,” Smith: said.
“We feel it appropriate w speak out un the matter of
choice.”

But: American: Cancer Society: spokeswoman Susso
Soltis said the “GreatiAmencan Smokeout” must be making
an impact, becuuse the tobaccu industry has gone (uo. great
lengthe to counter. iti The cancer society estimates that
cigmrets cause 150,000 deaths a year frum heart disvase,
cancer and respiratory diseases, 2s well ax fires.

AME HAC AN

SMONE.
hE
SCRELN
_eeene

Py

ee

A

“Great American Smokers Kit” trom Ptykp Morrts.

Re

 

‘Tobacco taxes
aid state coffers

By Owight EM. Angell
News Stat Wiiter

Say what you want about amobing, but cigarets help the
state of Michigan otay euiver t

Some $237 milion a year ends up in-Lansing’s coffers —
thenke to 2.6. mil ion Nicb:gan paffers whe inhale billions
of cigarete a var. And that doxin't inclice cigars, pipe
tobacco, and crew that also get tared.

“1f all cigacet amokers in tae state quit, we would face a
significant rovense decrease,” corcedes a apubeaman for
state Departrasse of Treasury. .

Vicon dont come cheeply. Lansing gets 21 cents s pack.
plus 4 percent sales tax. Wesk ington pets arcther 16 centa.

Michigans dma tre nation’s eghth highest cigaret Lax.
Massachusetts breds tbe litt al 26 cents a pack. and:
tobacco: growung Morth Carelma bottame out at 2 cents.

Cigaret tax wevenues ere small compared to the annual
state budert cf seme .$10 ballicn. Bot: all other Cactom being
equal, losing the tebacco tax would wipe out the atate’s
projectec surplas ef $54 miltico.

The cthes side ef the cuin, saya the American Cancer
Society, a thal mo ne-related nealth problen s custimillions
in health care, m4. mention premature dee ths. Nationat-
ly, cigaret tazee are em than half tf ¢ cost of medical care of
amoke-reated ‘illnes, the society sayn.

S0LPSEssz02z