Cowan, Liebowitz & Lat an, P.C. (
Michael S. Drews, Esq.

November 23, 1999

Page 3

its response to provide an accurate list of Donzi's dealers for
the final quarter of 1998.

Interrogatory No. 16 requested a breakdown, by type of
boat, of the 11.4% of the population that Donzi claims own
powerboats. Since Donzi relies on this percentage for its
damage calculation, it is essential that Donzi show how many of
these people own Donzi boats, and, more specifically, how many
own the 28 ZX, as compared with other powerboats. If the answer
to this interrogatory is truly "unknown," as Donzi claims, then
the defendants are hard-pressed to understand how Donzi can rely
on this figure to support its damage calculation. Donzi should
supplement its response accordingly.

Donzi's response to Interrogatory No. 17. +%ais also
inadequate. This interrogatory requests the factual basis for
Donzi's claim that (a) 1/2% of target audience would be expected
to inquire for more information regarding Donzi's boats and (b)
1/2% o£ such inquiries would develop into sales. Donzi's vague
response that these figures are based on "the knowledge and
experience" of Donzi's marketing, promotional and advertising
staff begs the question. Since Donzi is relying on these
figures to bolster its damage calculations, the defendants are
entitled to know the factual basis underlying these percentages.
We must therefore insist that Donzi supplement this response to
include all facts which support these figures, and produce all
documents that concern, relate to or support these claims
(Document Request No. 23).

Donzi's objection to Document Request No. 19 on the ground

that it is not limited "in context" is baffling. The crux of
Donzi's injury is the allegation that the defendants referred to
a Donzi boat as a cigarette boat. Documents concerning,

referring to or mentioning "cigarette boat" are directly
relevant to how those terms are used. Donzi cannot claim that
it was injured by the use of those terms, yet withhold
production of documents showing how those terms are used.

Since you also object that Document Request No. 19 is

overbroad because it does not contain a time frame, we agree, in
the interest of compromise, to modify this request so as to apply

MRM/MRM/22156/06/389042. 1

ZBSs 980¢S