fo

Yr Gul |

CTR Grant 3966
Principal Investigator: Thomas Smithgall

Title: Regulation of ras signaling by the c-fes proto-oncogene
tyrosine kinase

Critique: The applicant has shown that c-fes, which is proposed to
be linked to GM-CSF, interleukin 3 and erythropoietin receptor
signaling pathways has been shown to cause myeloid cell
differentiation and to block GM-CSF-mediated cell proliferation.
The applicant proposes that the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase c-fes
exerts its antigrowth and differentiating effects by opposing the
major growth pathway involving activated ras. The applicant has
clearly identified a very important question, because it is clear
that tyrosine kinases are involved in differentiation as well as in
proliferation. The strengths of this proposal are several:
Firstly, the importance of the question addressed; secondly, the
extensive background work carried out by the principal
investigator, both in published work from his postdoctoral
fellowship and in publications and preliminary data obtained as an
independent investigator, thirdly, the use of straightforward,
readily interpretable assays focusing on the effect of c-fes on GAP
activity; and fourthly, broader considerations of the effects of c-
fes involving other components of the mitogenic signaling cascades
such as fos, shc, and vav.

The Principal Investigator received his Ph.D. in 1986 in
pharmacology from the University of Pennsylvania where he studied
steroid metabolizing enzymes involved in carcinogen metabolism.
His postdoctoral fellowship at the National Institutes of Health
began his work on tyrosine kinases and specifically c-fes, its
biological activity and interaction with GAP. He has a very strong
publication record with important studies published in highly
refereed and quality journals, such as Biochemistry and The Journal
of Biological Chemistry. He became an Assistant Professor at the
Eppley Institute in 1991. He presently has National Institutes of
Health and American Cancer Society support, the latter for salary.
Budget should be reduced to a bingle.

Resume; This is an excellent proposal by a young assistant
professor to study the molecular mechanisms through which the
tyrosine kinase c-fes induces cell differentiation. The excellent
publication record, the importance of the question and the focused
nature of the studies make this an outstanding proposal. In this
application, as in several others reviewed, the applicant requests
funds for a specific project that is conceptually related to and
uses the same tools as that of an NIH grant that is on-going. I
would suggest discussion of the generic problem of individuals
submitting multiple grants to study a single question with one
grant being sent in for each small aspect of the general question
and hypothesis, i.e., none of these represent distinct lines of
inquiry. Recommend approval at a scientific priority of 1.2.

 

40009604