AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY, INC.

219 EAST 42N0 STRHOET + NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017 © (212) 867-3709

WILLIAM B. LEWIS
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF OIRECTORG

April 17, 1970

® Mr. Joseph F. Cullman, 3rd
Chairman of the Executive Committee
The Tobacco Institute, Inc.

Philip Morris, Inc.
100 Park Avenue
RESEARCH New York, New York 10017
EDUCATION
SERVICE Dear Mr. Cullman:

The Veterans Administration, the American Cancer Society and Doctors Auerbach and
Hammond cannot accede to the requests stated in your letter of February 27 and March 20 for an
evaluation of the Auerbach-Hammond study on “The Effects of Cigarette Smoking Upon Dogs” by a
panel of independent scientists chosen by you.

Your request is without precedent in the scientific community. The study under question was the
result of three and a half years of diligent and brilliant work by two eminently qualified scientists
whose findings have been validated by distinguished pathologists of worldwide reputation. In addition,
other leading pathologists, highly regarded by the scientific community, have visited Dr. Auerbach’s
laboratory, seen his slides and praised the work.

We do not intend to ask that these two eminent men submit their findings to any selected
committee chosen by the Tobacco Institute, or any other group. Their work will be judged in the
traditional manner of American science, where findings are presented, discussed, accepted or rejected
by scientists and physicians whose only motivation is the truth. Doctors Auerbach and Hammond
worked freely and without restraint with funds furnished by the federal government and the American
Cancer Society. They are beholden only to the scientific community at large and to the integrity
it represents.

If the Tobacco Institute, or any scientific research group, has doubts about the findings of this
study, the way it was conducted, or the credentials of the investigators, there is a time-honored and
scientifically accepted way to proceed. Let your own or another group of scientists repeat the |
experiments in a laboratory to prove that smoking dogs will not suffer tissue damage, emphysema and
lung cancer. The Auerbach-Hammond methodology is readily available to you. And I presume that
in the Council for Tobacco Research you have or can set up the mechanism for conducting such a study.

If you carry out your plan to publicize “our respective positions” to the medical and lay public,
you have our permission to use this letter as the position paper of the American Cancer Society.

Ne Blas

William B. Lewis

TIMN 0124739 {200007 NV

TIFL 0511214