To:

From:

Subject:

Caron)

PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
1875 Eye Street, N.W., Suite 500, Washington, O.C. 20006

Mr. J. B. Robinson Date: May 1, 1985
Gregory R. Scott

Turkey
«

You inquired about (1) a U.S.-Turkish bi-lateral trade
agreement signed in February, and (2) a proposal to
establish a joint Economic Commission under the State
Department.

1. Attached is a Federal Register notice (50 FR 8428,
March 1, 1985) announcing that the U.S. recognizes
Turkey as signatory on the GATT Subsidies Code. The
agreement was signed February 25, 1985. I am informed
that, in order for the U.S. to recognize a country under
the agreement, a bi-lateral trade agreement must be
reached that would have the following results: a
country (Turkey in this case) would agree to phase out
export sibSsidies and in return the U.S. would entitle
the country to injury tests in countervailing duty and
anti-dumping regulations with the U.S. International
Trade Commission. Sources at U.S. Commerce Department
indicate Turkey desired the protection afforded by the
Itc injury tests and, therefore, agreed to phase out its
export subsidies.

2. The Government of Turkey has proposed to the United
States that annual economic consultations between the
two countries commence this year. The U.S. is currently
considering such a meeting this year only. Under
Secretary of Economic Affairs for the U.S. Department of
State W. Allen Wallis is tentatively scheduled to visit
Turkey on June 5 and 6, 1985. No decision will be made
regarding future economic meetings until the U.S.
reviews the initial consultations, State Department
sources say nothing exists on paper regarding the
proposed economic commission at this time.

We have been asked by sources at the ITA Turkey desk at
the Commerce Department if we have any problems or
points we would like to have raised at the tentative
June 5 and 6 meeting. If so, please contact me as soon
as possible. I understand the agenda is wide open at

this time.

cc: Mr. Stephen B, Bull
Mr. Gene A. Knorr

Z6LEZLPL0Z