se of Body Scents in

.ocial Communication

isual, auditory, tactile and chemical

ignals are known to be important in
mediating the complex social interactions
ong primates, including man. Visual
ind, particularly, auditory signals have

Ween studied in considerable detail in a
humber of species, but our knowledge of
timate chemical communication is still
elatively poor.

The South American marmosets and
Lmarins are excellent models for the study
of chemical communication. Their very
hall body size and arboreal life style place
tertain restrictions on the effectiveness

bf visual communication which may

have favored the use of chemical signals.

l species in this family possess highly
bpecialized skin glands which are employed
in scent marking. The subject of our
research, the saddle-back tamarin
Saguinus fuscicollis), uses a complex
ebaceous-apocrine gland located in the
benital area for scent marking. We have
tndertaken long-term studies of the
bommunicatory content and chemical
tomposition of these scent marks, along
with their role in some areas of social
behavior.

Our aim is to determine how
communicatory signals are encoded and
how they are interpreted by recipients. Our
studies have shown that the scent marks
contain a detailed communicatory code
which enables the recipient to obtain
important information on the scent donor.
The monkeys can discriminate between
their own scent and that of several other
callitrichid species and subspecies. Cues
for male-female discrimination, and
discrimination between castrated and
normal males, are also present. Moreover,
the monkeys discriminate between scents
from dominant and submissive males, and
between familiar male as well as female
individuals. The scent may also contain
cues which allow the tamarins to assess the
period of time that elapsed since the scent
mark was deposited. The interpretation of
such information is influenced by the social
context in which it is perceived, as well as
by the previous experiences of the
recipient. These factors, in turn, influence
the responses to the scent.

The scent marks are chemically
complex. The major volatile compounds
are squalene, cholesterol and a series of
butyrates. In addition, volatile compounds,
as well as a number of high molecular
constituents, among them proteins, are
important in determining the sensory
qualities of these highly complex “social
perfumes.”

Collaborators: A. Belcher, L. Richards

QOQAGYS338

 

Chemistry of Aphrodisin

Alan Singer

My research interest is the chemical
identification of mammalian pheromones,
compounds that act via the chemical senses
to help regulate social interactions in a
population of mammals. An important
motivation for this research is the
expectation that identification of such
compounds with a demonstrable and
biologically important function will lead
directly to advances in the understanding
of the chemical senses by providing useful
stimulus molecules for the study of
structure-activity relations and for the
investigation of peripheral chemoreceptor
mechanisms.

The approach is interdisciplinary,
collaborative, and it is based on the
classical technique of chemical
fractionation followed by biological assay,
a process that is repeated until pure active
compounds are isolated. These active
compounds are then characterized by
appropriate chemical and biochemical
techniques for the analysis of molecular
structure.

One result of this work has been
the isolation and characterization of
aphrodisin, a protein produced by female
hamsters that acts on vomeronasal
chemoreceptors to elicit sexual behavior
from males. The structure of this protein
shows that it is a member of a superfamily
of extracellular proteins secreted by glands
in numerous animal species, and most
closely related to the recently described
odorant-binding protein. Experiments on
the behavioral and physiological activity
of “synthetic” aphrodisin (produced by
molecular cloning in bacteria) have already
demonstrated that identification of
authentic mammalian pheromones will
lead to significant advances in research on
the chemical senses.

Collaborators: E Macrides and R. O’Connell
(Worcester Foundation for Experimental Biology),
W. Henzel and H. Niall (Genentech, Inc.)

Y SRESPESZOZ