sande etna atcha dann au lad

Not

 

-.ctig death observed in Table | was the result of
contuunding effects. Necrosis was nota significant variable
when included in a multivanate model containing cell
type, tumor size, lymphocytic infiltration, and mitotic ac-
tivity. Lymphocytic infiltration was significant in this
model (chi-square 6.98, P = 0.008) but it was less signif-
icant than cell type, tumor size, and mitotic activity.

Discussion

The prevalence of uveal malignant melanomas with
100 lymphocytes per 20 HPF or greater observed in this
study was 12.4%. Federman and Clark'* reported that the
prevalence of lymphocytic infiltration in uveal malignant
melanomas is less than 20%, but did not quantitate the
degree of lymphocytic infiltration. In our experience, 100
lymphocytes per 20 HPF are easily appreciated by the
pathologist.

In the univariate Cox model analysis of the risk factors
(Table 1), lymphocytic infiltration ranked fourth among
the significant predictors with greater lymphocytic infil-
tration associated with a worse prognosis. As predictors
of patient outcome (Fig. 1), significant lymphocytic infil-
tration, Callender cell type, and tumor size (LTD) all
showed significant differences between their good prog-
nosis group and their poor prognosis group. Callender
cell type showed the greatest discrimination. In the mul-
tivariate analysis, the reduction of the chi-square value
for lymphocytic infiltration from 21.2 to 6.98 indicates
that much of the association between lymphocytic infil-
tration and patient outcome is due to its association with
the other major risk factors. Despite the reduction, in-
creased lymphocytic infiltration in uveal malignant mel-
anomas was still a significant predictor of higher mortality.

In a study of 508 cases of uveal malignant melanoma
with intralesional lymphocytic infiltration, Vit® observed
a higher mortality associated with tumors having a lym-
phocytic infiltrate. The degree of lymphocytic infiltration
was increased in tumors of mixed and epithelioid cell
types, and was directly proportional to the size of the tu-
mor. Considering that Callender cell type and tumor size,
respectively, are dominant factors in patient survival, it
would be reasonable that his findings should parailel our
finding that the majority of the poor prognosis for tumors
with lymphocytic infiltration is the result of associations
with cell type and tumor size.

Davidorf and Lang? reviewed 291! cases of uveal ma-
lignant melanoma. They found tumors with moderate to
marked lymphocytic infiltration in 54 cases (prevalence
of 18.8%). In their study they controlled for cell type by
comparing 15 cases of mixed and epithelioid cell type
uveal malignant melanomas with moderate to marked
lymphocytic infiltration to 25 similar cases without lym-

 

50601616

LYMPHOCYTIC INFILTRATION INUVEAL MM ~~ de da Cruz et al. 114

phocytic infiltration. In contrast to our findings, the results
of Davidorf and Lang’ suggested better survival associated
with lymphocytic infiltration, although they indicated that
the difference was not statistically significant. We believe
that the latter study may not be representative because of
the small number of cases.

Some workers engaged in the study of inflammatory
reactions to solid neoplasia have concluded that the in-
flammatory reactions are nonspecific and associated with
tumor necrosis.!° This hypothesis does not appear to be
valid in cases of uveal malignant melanoma because in
our analysis necrosis was not a significant factor in the
multivariate Cox model. Many investigators, however,
believe that cellular immunity is the major host response
to solid tumors.*'*'® The components of the cellular im-
mune response to malignant tumors include macrophages,
neutrophils, and lymphocytes.'* In our cases, lymphocytic
infiltration was the only cellular response observed which
bore prognostic significance. Aside from natural killer
cells, all tumoricidal lymphocytic cells require direct or
indirect exposure to tumor antigen for activation.'® As
there is no intrinsic uveal lymphoid system, this implies
the presentation of tumor antigen to the reticuloendothe-
hal system by means of the general circulation. Viable
circulating tumor cells may be the source of this antigen.
Our observation that the prognosis is worse when there
is lymphocytic infiltration in these tumors suggests that
circulating tumor cells that are capable of metastasis may
be a frequent means of immune activation in this disease.

Lymphocytic infiltration in uveal malignant melanoma
has prognostic value, but we believe that all significant
risk factors should be evaluated in prognostic assessment
of this neoplasm. Our results should be useful in evaluating
the prognosis associated with uveal malignant melanomas
that exhibit demonstrable lymphocytic infiltration.

REFERENCES

1. Underwood JCE, Lymphoreticular infiltration in human tumors:
Prognostic and biological implications. A review. Br J Cancer 1974; 30:
538-548.

2. Balch CM, Murad TM, Soong SJ, Ingalls AL, Halpera NB, Maddox
WA. A multifactorial analysis of melanoma: Prognostic histopathologic
features comparing Clark’s and Breslow's Staging Methods. Ann Surg
1978; 188:732-742.

3. McGovern VJ, Shaw HM, Milton GW, Farago GA. Lymphocytic
infiltration and survival in malignant melanoma. In: Ackerman AB, ed.
Pathology of Malignant Melanoma: Masson Monographs in Dermato-
pathology. New York: Masson Publishing, 1981; 341-344.

4, Bernengo MG, Lisa F, Meregalli M, De Matteis A, Zina G. The
prognostic value of T-Lymphocyte levels in malignant melanoma: A 5-
year follow-up. Cancer 1983; $2:1841-1848.

5, Davidorf FH, Lang JR. Immunology and immunotherapy of ma-
lignant uveal melanomas. In: Peyman GA, Apple DJ, Sanders DR, eds.
Intraocular Tumors. New York: Appleton/Century/Crofts, 1977; 119-
133.

6. Vit VY. Prognostic role of morphological characteristics of the
immune response in uveal melanoblastomas of various cellular types (in
Russian}. Arkh Patol 1983; 45:25-30.