Reprinted from CANCER, Vol. 65, No. 1, January 1, 1990.
Copyright © 1990, by the American Cancer Society, Inc. J. B. Lippincott Company.
Printed in U.S.A.

Lymphocytic Infiltration in Uveal Malignant Melanoma

PANFILO QO. DE LA CRUZ JR, MD, CHARLES S. SPEGHT, MD, AND IAN W. MCLEAN, COL, MC, USA

A study relating the intralesional infiltration of lymphocytes and plasma cells to patient survival was
performed on cases of uveal malignant melanoma accessed at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology,
Washington, DC (AFIP) between 1954 and 1973, The authors examined 1193 cases using light microscopy.
Of the 1078 cases with technically acceptable histologic sections, 134 tumors contained 100 or more
lymphocytes per 20 high-power (X400) microscopic fields (20 HPF). The prevalence was 12.4%. This
was designated the “high lymphocytic” group. An equivalent number of cases with fewer lymphocytes
comprised the “low lymphocytic” group. The survival rate at 15 years was 36.7% for patients in the high
lymphocytic group and 69.6% for patients in the low lymphocytic group. Using the Cox model, the authors
found that an increased number of lymphocytes per 20 HPF was significantly associated with decreased
survival (chi-square = 24.2, P = <0.0001). A significant association was observed even when we controlled

for other risk factors (chi-square = 6.98, P = 0.008).

Cancer 65:112-115, 1990.

T HE IMMUNOLOGIC role of lymphocytes and plasma
cells in malignant tumors has been extensively stud-
ied in the last two decades. Speculations have been made
on whether or not the presence of these mononuclear cells
in tumors has an effect on patient survival. Underwood,!
in his review of the literature, found a favorable association
between lymphocytic infiltration and patient survival in
most cancerous tumors. In succeeding publications,?*
contradictory results were presented regarding this asso-
ciation in cases of cutaneous malignant melanoma. In
patients with uveal malignant melanoma, Davidorf and
Lang? found that the survival was better if the tumor con-
tained a lymphocytic infiltrate, whereas Vit® found the
opposite. Interpretation of these studies is difficult because
lymphocytic infiltration was either poorly defined or sub-
jectively evaluated. Because of these problems we under-
took a study relating intralesional lymphocytic and plas-
macytic infiltration in uveal malignant melanoma to pa-
tient survival. Multivariate analysis of lymphocytic

Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Association for Research in
Vision and Ophthalmology, Sarasota, Florida, May 1988.

From the Registry of Ophthalmic Pathology, Armed Forces Institute
of Pathology, Washington, DC.

Supported in part by research grant EY04482 from the National Eye
institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

The opinions or assertions contained herein are the private views of
the authors and are not to be construed as official or as reflecting the
views of the Department of the Army or the Department of Defense.

Address for reprints: Ian W. McLean, COL, MC, USA, Department
of Ophthalmic Pathology, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Wash-
ington, DC 20306-6000,

Accepted for publication July 21, 1989,

infiltration and other known risk factors*'? such as Cal-
lender cell type, tumor size, mitotic activity, necrosis,
scleral invasion, and orbital invasion was done to evaluate
its prognostic value.

Materials and Methods

One thousand one hundred nincty-three uveal malig-
nant melanoma cases accessed between 1954 and 1971
were retrieved from the files of the Registry of Ophthalmic
Pathology at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology,
Washington, DC for use in this study. One thousand sev-
enty-eight cases had hematoxylin and eosin-stained his-
tologic sections that were technically acceptable. All tu-
mors containing 100 or more lymphocytes per 20 high-
power (400) microscopic fields (HPF) were selected for
the “high lymphocytic” group. We chose the next accessed
case of uveal malignant melanoma with less than 100
lymphocytes per 20 HPF for the “low lymphocytic” group.
Without knowledge of the patients’ follow-up data, the
number of lymphocytes and plasma cells were counted
separately in 20 HPF within the tumor; tumor size in its
largest dimension (LTD) was measured; Callender cell
type, degree of necrosis, mitotic activity, distribution of
lymphocytes, scleral invasion, and orbital invasion were
coded. The risk factors were coded ‘as follows: (1) lym-
phocytic and plasmacytic infiltration as the log of the
number of cells plus one per 20 HPF; (2) distribution of
lymphocytes as perivascular or diffuse; (3) Callender cell
type as spindle, mixed, or epithelioid; (4) tumor size as
measurement of largest dimension; (5) necrosis as 0 to 4
(0 = no necrosis in the tumor, | = less than 5% of the

 

50601614