12/12/63

DJT-1132

Art Buchicald at Home

 

Of Mice and Women
Devul 2 iyo dvasimaton. |

Despite ma? pudiicity concerning the
effects o( cigaretie\ moking on the human; thought you'd be interested in what theyre

body, we =ppy to report to the cigarette

vapanies, who have so much at stake, that}

wife is not impressed with the evidence so
iar. If she speaks for the majority of cigarette
amokers—and she insists she does—-sales should
eontinue and even rise as the reports come
piling in. .

The other night we said to her, “I see some
one from the American Medical Association
has come out and said there is a definite cor-
relation between cigarette smoking and heart

“What do they know sbout it?" she asked.
angrily.

“Well, they're doctors and they've done a lot
of research on the problem.”

“The tobacco industry also knows a lot about
it, and they say we should wait until all the
evidence is in. Would you please pass the ash

tray?"
e ® °

: “The evidence is pretty. conclusive.” we said
“J read the other day that in an independent
investigation. they had 20 mice smoke cigar-
ettes and 20 mice who didn't. and the ones who
didn't lived twice as long as the ones who did.”

“J don't. think they should allow mice to
smoke.” she said: “I've always thought it was
very bad for them.”

“They re just trying to dramatize the effects

( smoking on the human. body,” we said.

“TY don't see why we should give up smoking
because mice can't do it.” she said.

“It isn't just mice,” we told her, “They did

same thing with rats.” d

NC

“Are you calling me a rat?”
“There is nothing personal about this. x just

saying these days about smoking.”

“I never liked mice or rats,” she said.

“That's not the point. We are dealing here
with medical evidence.” .

“Tl bet the e who lived longer were ner-,
vous Wrecks,” she' seid. ‘

“They didn’t study that part of it.” :

“Of course they didn't! All they were con-,
cerned with was cancer and heart disease. Why
didn't they study their mental health? Do you
know why women smoke? Because they're ner-
vous. Do you know who makes them nervous?
Their husbands. Why don't you find out how
many marriages have been saved by smoking
instead of how many mice have died fram it?”

e e e

“Do you think there is a correlation between
marriage and cigarette amoking?”

“There is in any house where a husband
“— throwing mouse and rat statistics at his

e.”

“You may have a point,” we admitted.

“The trouble with all these reports is, the
more they put them out, the more nervous
smokers become and the more they smokxe."

“Why don't you just give them up?”

“Why don't you come right out with it and
my you want a divorce?” she asked.

“I don't want a divorce. I just suggested you
cive up smoking.”

“As far as I'm concerned,” she replied, “it's
the same thing.” é

@ 1943 Pveitaners wawennser Syndiaste

IyT Sco0 ~37!

TSes9esg