680534263
ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

PRODUC]

 

C Town of pump River . CO
TAYLOR COUNTY, WISCONSIN aa

February 2, 1978

Robert W. Schroeder Exuieir /.
Schroeder, Gedlen, Riester & Meerke
Attorneys and Counselors :
212 West Wisconsin Avenue
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53203

 

Dear Sir:

Re: Senate Bill 195
“  {(Anti-Smoking Bill)
Robert, I am very happy you wrote me because we people up

here in the hinterland don't hear very much about these
Bills, and who is lobbying for or against them, until they

' pass.

I AM VERY MUCH IN FAVOR OF THIS BILL because I myself was
a smoker for about 4.0 years. Now, here I sit with an .
oxygen tank in my hands trying to get enough air to survive.

I applaud every young man and every young woman who chooses
not to smoke. They show respect for the rights of others by

first demonstrating respect for their own bodies. What a
thoughtful example they are to all people (everyone from the

‘youngest infant to the oldest great grandparent) when they

refuse to follow the example of their smoking elders. It is
adults who smoke who should be shamed by them. How asinine

' of those adults who smoke to ask that they be allowed to

continue that travesty! .

I am glad you indicated that your firm is Legislative Counsel
for the Tobacco Institute. Now, please show self-respect and
respect for the rights of ALL people who breathe air, by in- .
sisting that tobacco find other legitimate uses--uses which do.
not infringe on the rights of all human beings who have a right. ._
to breathe unpolluted air. _ . ED

I know I can't defeat you lawyers but I can keep "pecking away™
and maybe, some day, I can sit down in a public place to eat
without having smoke blown into my face; maybe I can listen to
a soeech or hear some music in a public place without enduring
cigerette smoke and maybe I can consult a doctor without being
asphyxiated by cigarette smoke in the waiting room before L
get to see him. , Fs

089

e9zbes

Just last night I consulted my doctor because I was choking.

You can be sure I will contact my representative and tell him
T will hold him personally res PONE nt this bill fails to pass.

Sincerely,

Me

| | Edward H. Manglos, CHAIRMAN ;
EHM/hm Town of Jump River - Taylor Co., Wisconsin