~ t wig tlk fe hp ene FO pnt Tog" wee

oe ee der

é

fof Tot net eat A ty ome a aol
vane lkine a al Law ~y ial to POT

y ne
RJR Interoffice Memoranduam

qe what we wat.

- ita Ly nas

Subject: Date: July 25, 1985

To: From: M. F. Dube

The objective of the SA #2 research program is to develop products with improved
sidestream smoke odor which positively influence smokers' perceptions. New Brands
Marketing has begun concept development for SA #2 products and have suggested the

following timetable: .
Qualitative Hypothesis Exploration 8/7 - 8/8 Tene 7
Qualitative Concept Refinement 8/26 - 8/29 whe ?
Quantitative Positioning Concept Test W/O 9/23 ~woho 7
Results W/O 11/18

The Quantitative Positioning Concept Test will be used to determine optimum

positioning, smoker segment, business potential and aroma categories which support

the positioning. For the quantitative concept test, products will be required to

demonstrate the odor benefits, although these products will not be smoked by the — 0

consumer. UrRe ty
bot? |

In order to provide these products, decisions must be made on which aroma categories
appropriately address consumer wants and match the positioning concepts. The
Marketing suggestion was that internal screening, prior qualitative learning and
"best judgment" be used to arbitrarily select the aroma categories. It would be
unwise to make such decisions based on such fragile evidence. It is the opinion of
the SA Team that in-depth marketing research be conducted. Such research should
answer certain basic questions:

1. How do consumers categorize odors/aromas? 7
2. Which of these aromas have positive connotations?
3. Which of these aromas are tobacco/smoke compatible?
4, How many segments exist with different odor preference (i.e. male, female,
35+, FF, FFLT, ULT, etc.)?
Is there a universally acceptable aroma which is not segment specific?
Are aroma/odor concerns of smokers and non-smokers the same? Is this issue of
greater importance to one of these groups? Are their preferences alike or
different?
Within an aroma category, there is a wide breath of odorants. Which of these
inter-category odorants best address the problem, are preferable to the
consumer, mitigate the concern?

5
6

~}

S£10 99ngsg