use, possesses, obtains, accepts, or receives any such visa, permit, border crossing
card, alien registration receipt card, or other document prescribed by statute or
regulation for entry into or as evidence of authorized stay or employment in the
United States, knowing it to be forged, counterfeited, altered, or falsely made, or
to have been procured by means of any false claim or Statement, of to have been
otherwise procured by fraud or unlawfully obtained; or Whoever, except under
direction of the Attorney General or the Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, or other proper officer... makes any print, photograph, or
impression in the likeness of any immigrant or nonimmigrant visa, permit or other
document required for entry into the United States...” (18 USC §1546).

US Passport

“Whoever falsely makes, forges, counterfeits, Mmutilates, or alters any passport or
instrument purporting to be a Passport, with intent that the same may be used; or
Whoever willfully and knowingly uses, or attempts to use, or furnishes to another
for use any such false, forged, counterfeited, mutilated, or altered passport or
instrument purporting to be a passport . . . shall be fined under this title,
imprisoned not more than 10 years, or both.” (18 USC §1546). 18 USC §1546
does not define the terms “falsely made” or “forged” and it is reasonable to
assurne that Congress intended these words to have their common meaning,
Wright v. United States (1949, CA9 Ariz) 172 F2d 310.

Other

There is also a state law in Virginia regarding duplication of documents issued by
federal agencies (and other states may have them as well). It states: “It shall be
unlawful for any person to manufacture, advertise for sale, sell or possess any
fictitious, facsimile or simulated driver’s license issued by any state, territory or
possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
Puerto Rico or any foreign country or government; foreign government visa,
Virginia Department of Motors special identification card, official identification
issued by any other federal, state or foreign government agency; or official
university or college student identification card, or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be mistaken
for a valid license or identification card.” (Virginia Stat. §18.2-204.2)

99%S LSSTS