Photocopying Official Identification

State Identification (NC, VA)

North Carolina - No restrictions on photocopying identification cards.

Note: “. . . the acceptance thereof as valid identification is a matter left entirely to
the discretion of the any person to whom the card is presented.” (North Carolina
Gen, Stat. §20-37.7)

Virginia - “It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, advertise for sale,
sell or possess any fictitious, facsimile or simulated . . . Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles special identification card . . . or in any way reproduce any
identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could be mistaken
for a valid license or identification of any type specified in this subsection.”
(Virginia Stat. §18.2-204.2)

Military Identification

“The reproduction in any manner of the likeness of any identification card
prescribed by DA or Department of the Air Force is prohibited without prior
approval in writing by the Secretary of the Army of Secretary of the Air Force.”
(32 CFR §507.11) Definitions: DA means “Department of the Army.” (32 CFR
§507.3)

Gun Permit (NC, VA)

North Carolina - “The sheriff of the county where the permit was issued... may
revoke a permit subsequent to a hearing for any of the following reasons:

... (2) Misuse of a permit, including lending or giving a permit to another person,
duplicating a permit, or using a permit with the intent to unlawfully cause harm to
a person or property.” (North Carolina Gen. Stat. §14-415.18)

Virginia - “It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, advertise for sale,
shall or possess any fictitious, facsimile or simulated . . . official identification
issued by any other federal, state or foreign government agency; . . or in any way
reproduce any identification card or facsimile thereof in such a manner that it could
be mistaken for a valid license or identification of any type specified in this
subsection.” (Virginia Stat. §18.2-204.2)

INS Card

“Whoever, knowingly forges, counterfeits, alters, or falsely makes any immigrant

or nonimmigrant visa, permit, border crossing card, alien registration receipt card,
or other document prescribed by statute or regulation for entry into or as evidence
of authorized stay or employment in the United States, or utters, uses, attempts to

S9bS “LSSTS