Biobehavioral Research / oo

Human Smoking Behavior ~- The experimental phase of a study of
plasma nicotine concentration, puffing © behavior and
respiration in a group of WINSTON and Marlboro smokers was
completed. Thirteen smokers consumed one WINSTON and = one
Marlboro cigarette each. The cigarettes were instrumented for
measurement of puff profiles. Subjects were constrained to

‘take nine puffs at 45-second intervals. Respiration behavior

waS monitored continuously throughout the ca. 25-minute-long
experimental sessions. Blood samples were obtained 2.5
minutes before lighting the cigarette, immediately before
lighting and l, 3, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 minutes
post-lighting. Blood samples and respiration and puffing data
are under analysis.

Basic Sensory Research - Final arrangements were made for a
study of the effects of smoking on oral pH. Stone dental
casts were made of volunteer smokers and shipped to Integrated
Ionics, Inc. for use in the preparation of dental appliances
containing the intra-oral pH electrodes. The study is to

commence August 26.

Toxicology Research

General

-- A draft of the authorization request for interim
facilities and detailed engineering for renovation of
611-9 is under review.

~~ Dr. Burger attended a NCSU/RJRT Apprenticeship program
review.

Genetic Toxicology

Ames Test - Six cigarette samples from Germany were tested
with two strains.

-- Reference samples A, B, and C were tested using S-9 in
sucrose to check the results by Integrated Lab Systems who
used the same sucrose base S-9.

-~- Results for ten samples were received from Litton. Values
for strain TA1OO were on the low side; efforts to improve
this will continue. Dr. Debbie Lee will visit their lab

next week.

SCE - Betsy Reed visited SITEK Lab to improve her technical
skills in SCE.

-- A few weeks ago, Jan Connor shipped sets of slides to
SITEK to validate her test on the positive control
(cyclophosphamide). The scoring results received this
week matched her's very closely.

Bancs

ECZE