* 110 East 59 Street

THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH. ~.U.S.A., INC.

New York, New York “10022”

 

NOTICE OF RESEARCH PROJECT

 

e@ —— : 7
. . GRANT No: 1575

 

 

 

 

1

1

- PROJECT TITLE? * ~ — ———

Chromatographic Separation and Comparative Metabolism of d~ and 1-Nicotine.

TAVESTIGATOR(STF OLPARTMENT/SPEGIALTV, SCHOOL OF Division oe |

J

{

: t

John A. Thompson School of Pharmacy |

PERFORMING ORGANIZATION? . PERIOD FOR THIS MRP. j

Name and University of Colorado Start Date: July 1, 1983 {

Address: Campus Box 297 End Date: June 30, 1984
including Boulder, CO 80309 Annual Funding: $50,000

Zip Code.

PROJECT SUMMARY:

Be brief-200 word maximum: (Include Objective, Approach,
/ . - 4 Current Plans ‘and/or. Progress)
Analytical methods will be developed to separate the maturally occur-

ring stereoisomer 1-nicotine from d-nicotine. Attempts to. accomplish this

will involve the use of high performance liquid and capillary gas chromato—
eraphic columns with stationary phases containing optically pure chiral
groups. Another approach to be investigated involves the interactions of

nicotine with various optically pure chiral acids and separations of the re- .

sulting diastereomeric ion pairs by liquid chromatography. A less attrac

tive possibility involves chemical modification of nicotine by an efficient
nonstereoselective process to a species which can besconverted to diastereo~

meric derivatives. The resulting derivatives might be separable by liquid
or gas chromatographic techniques. Once suitable chromatographic methods
‘have been developed for the ‘micro-scale analyses of d- and i-nicotine,
‘studies will be initiated to accurately determine the degree of conversion
of the natural l-isomer to its enantiomer during the burning of tobacco.
The comparative metabolism of d- and 1-nicotine will also be investigated in
rats and mice following administration of the racemic compound. In addi~
tion, methods will ‘be’ developed for preparative-scale chromatographic separ~
ations of the enantiomers of nicotine and nornicotine. :

a a ——L |

Late ve

 

50168370