HTI Test of Production Marlboro Red 85mm NMF Soft Pack
versus
Production Winston Red 85mm Soft Pack

BACKGROUND

The object of this test was to determine consumer acceptability of
Production Marlboro Red 85mm non-menthol soft pack relative to Production
Winston Red 85mm non-menthol soft pack. Analytically, the two cigarettes
differed as shown on the attached analytical sheet (Appendix A). This test
was conducted via mail placement/telephone interview among Marlboro Red and
Winston Red soft pack smokers. All products were tested "blind" in plain
white coded packages. A scalar sequential monadic ballot was used for this
test (Appendix B). All results were balanced, for order of trial. This
test is part of the New York (HTT) /Richmond (POL) competitive testing

program. The monadic scales in this test matched those currently in use by
POL.

FINDINGS

Marlboro Red 85mm NMF Soft Pack Smokers

1. The Marlboro Red 85mm soft pack smokers significantly preferred (at
the 95% level) their own brand (57%) to Winston Red 85mm soft pack
(43%). Within the demographic subgroups, younger adult male smokers
significantly preferred (95% level) the Marlboro Red 85mm cigarettes.

The average overall ratings assigned by these smokers on a "1" (worst)
to "7" (best) scale are consistent with the overall preference vote in
that Marlboro Red 85mm (4.75) was rated significantly higher (95%
level) than Winston Red 85mm (4.36).

2. A review of the remaining qualitative information (Average Ratings -
Table 3; Reasons For Preference - Table 4; Dislikes - Table 5; and
Likes ~ Table 6) indicate that these Marlboro soft pack smokers
perceived their own brand to have a milder taste, easier draw and to
be less harsh, cooler smoking and not have a dry taste in the mouth.
A large percentage of these smokers preferred Marlboro because they
were milder and not as harsh.

Winston Red 85mm Soft Pack Smokers

3. The Winston Red 85mm soft pack smokers significantly preferred (at the

95% level) their own brand (56%) to Marlboro Red 85mm soft pack (44%).
Within the demographic subgroups older male smokers significantly
preferred (95% level) the Winston Red 85mm cigarettes.