PHILIP MORRIS. UL S. A. we
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Soyo) mgr teat

BESTOP TTY Tov: crevice:
RESTRICTED GiSiocuet

ya

 

To: _R. A. Comes pate: July 16, 1985
From: _L.. H. Thompson
subject: .S/M Assay - Comparison of X6D5BFR (control) to X6D5BFS (test)

   

Two cigarette types, a control filler sprayed with water (X6D5BFR):;. and a
control filler (X6D5BFS) sprayed with an additive (M1004), were submitted for
testing in the S/M assay (1). The objective of this. experiment was to determine
if a decrease in the amount of M1004 added to the filler from a previous. experi-
ment. (2), would show a significant difference between the test sample and the
control. Previous. results (2) showed that the control filler + additive had a
significantly higher specific activity (S.A.) than control filler + water. Four
6008 (3). smokings of these samples were carried out by members of Charge No.
6908. (3).

The IT CSC's from the replicate smokings (prepared as lOmg/m1i stock solu-
tions im DMSO) were tested randomly in strain TA98+S9 according to the: standard
procedure (4,5) using doses of 0.05,0.10, 0.15. and 0.20 mg CSC/plate. The
control data from this. experiment were within) normal ranges.

Table 1 shows the analysis of variance on the experimental results
(performed using "Minitab").. Statistically, there was no difference between the
control and the test sample. This result implies that. adding this compound to
filler at a lower level may. not have a significant effect on activity. However,
iit should be noted! that except for smoking 3,. all of the S.A.s for the test
sample were higher than the S.A.s of the control. The: resulting mean S.A. for
the test samples would reflect the variation im smoking 3.. Therefore, a repeat
experiment and perhaps even more smokings. would be: needed’ to veriify these
results. The: average CSC yield/cigarette was the same for each cigarette type

(Table 1). ek Z MLE

cc: Dr. J.. L. Charles
Dr. C.K. Ellis
Dr. R. N. Ferguson
Dr. B.. B. Sanders

4vSb20e

D98