| ey
Monday, February 8, Each subject will be required to appear at the MTR ¢
laboratory between 3 and 6 P.M. for a midweek blood and urine sample. At

this time 20 ml (or 2 x 10 m1) of blood will be drawn. The completed tally
Sheets are submitted along with the butts (and unused cigarettes) and addf-

tional cigarettes issued to each subject, if needed. New tally sheets will

be provided. :

Thursday, February 11. Smoking will continue through Thursday afternoon,
February 11, at which time each subject will appear at the MTR laboratory

between 3 and 6 P.M. The subjects will deliver their tally sheets, the

butts and all unused cigarettes, provide either 24-hour or fresh urine sample

and have 20 ml (or 2 x 10 ml) of blood drawn. Before leaving, the second

supply of test cigarette (Ist cross-over) will be issued and the subject told

to report to the laboratory on February 15 between 3 and 6 P.M. for collec-

tion of blood and urine samples. ,

Analyses of these samples will have to be completed by February 13 or at the?
latest, February 14, in order to incorporate the results into an interim

report that will be useful to R.J. Reynolds, 1.e., fn time for the February 15th
meeting with F.7.C. This will require statistical analysis of data related to
precision and accuracy of the analysis itself and to levels of cotinine in

blood and pH of the urine. If the data on total cotinine in 24-hour urine
samples are available, it will be correlated with plasma levels,

Monday, February 15. At this time 20 ml (or 2 x 10 ml) of blood and urine

will be collected. The completed tally sheet and butts will be collected and
additional cigarettes provided, if needed. The subjects will be told to con-
tinue smoking and to appear at the laboratory between 3 and 6 P.M. on Thursday,
February 18.

Thursday, February 18. Subjects will appear at the laboratory between 3 and

6 P.M. The subjects will deliver their completed tally sheets, butts and all
unused cigarettes. A 20 ml (or 2 x 10 ml) blood sample will be drawn and
urine samples provided. Before leaving, the 3rd test cigarette supply (medium
yield cigarette) will be issued to all subjects, new tally sheets given out
and each subject told to appear on February 22 at the MTR laboratory for

uo
HM
he
ba
&
a
a
a
a

Arthur D Little Inc.