$e

A tally sheet will be provided each time cigarettes are given to a subject and
the subject instructed to note the time the cigarette was smoked. It may be
desirable also to have the subject consecutively number the corresponding
cigarette butts so that both time and corresponding butt are recorded. fach
subject will be required to return all butts and any unsmoked cigarettes -
including those that broke, where the wrong’end was lit or the cigarette was
otherwise rendered unsmokeable.

Scheduling for Assignment of Cigarettes and Collection of Blood Sample

The following is a tentative schedule needed for achieving results of the

first half of the Barclay, Now cross-over. -The assumption is made
that all the following conditions are met:

1. Cigarettes will be available on February 3, 1982.
2. Suitable subjects (32) will be available on February 4, 1982.

3. Analytical Methods will be available for accurate determinations of
plasma cotinine by February 1, 1982.

4, Medical and Technical Research, Inc. (MTR), resources and personnel
are willing and available to participate in this- study.

_—Monday-Feprtnreynt Thirty two subjects will assemble at MTR to learn the
‘nature of the study and be instructed as to the protocol to be followed.
Thursday, February 4.1A blood sample (20 ml or 2 x 10 m1) will be taken and
analyzed by A.D. Little, Inc., with results made avaflable for evaluation by
A.D. Little, Inc., and R.J. Reynolds on the morning of February 6. h

POS Mint hyn |
From the 32 subjects, 8 outliers (4 highest, 4 lowest) wi]] be notified of their
elimination and dropped from the study. The remaining subjects will be asked
to appear at the laboratory as scheduled on the afternoon of the same day be-
tween 3 and 6 P.M. (February 4) and a second blood sampte will be taken. Each
subject will be given the designated type and number of cigarettes and a tally
sheet to record time of smoking, . In addition to the blood
sample, a 24-hour urine sample will be collected, the volume and pH measured,
and a 100 ml aliquot removed and frozen. The remainder of the urine is dis-
carded. If total 24-hour urine collections are not possible, then a 100 mj
urine sample will be collected for pH meastrements.

Lees gTTts

Arthur D Little Inc.