Pwon Witham ts ayy ©
Protocol Ws Con Sre frei Ctl

Once a suitable smoking population is established from a careful review of the
questionnaires, the subjects will be divided into two groups of 16 subjects each.
The first group will be designated Group A and will be made up of smokers who have
smoked at least 1 pack of cigarettes with yields of 1 mg tar and 0.1 to 0.2 mg
nicotine (note Gori used 5 cigarettes as a minimum). The second, Group B, will
consist of smokers who have smoked at least 1 pack of medium tar and nicotine
cigarettes, e.g., 7 to 12 mg tar and 0.5 to 1 mg nicotine. ,

All subjects must be told the nature of the study being carried out, C.0e5
estimating the amount of smoking by measuring metabolites in blood, and that
the study involves commercially available cigarettes.

Randomization of 32 subjects within groups A and B into subgroups A and Ay and
By and By will be carried out as follows:

Subjects in Group A and those in Group B will be listed in alphabetical order
and assigned a number between 1 and 16. For the first week odd numbered sub-
jects will be given Barclay cigarettes to smoke and even numbered subjects will
be given Now cigarettes to smoke. For the second week the odd numbered subjects
will be given Now cigarettes to smoke and the even numbered subjects will be
given Barclay cigarettes. All subjects will be given a medium tar and nicotine
yield cigarette, e.g., Vantage (9 mg tar, 0.7 mg nicotine) for the third week.

Cigarettes

To insure representative samples of each of the brands of cigarettes, it is
desirable to pool all the cigarettes for each of the 3 brands needed in the
study, then randomize and repack the cigarettes in unmarked packs (except for
same code number that will identify the'test cigarettes but not: the brand).
Each smoker will receive an excess number of cigarettes, e.g.. 1 pack more
than the amount listed by the subject in his questionnaire (to prevent running
out of cigarettes and smoking cigarettes other than those assigned).

F | bm be ie,

9Ppes STTTsS

/

Arthur DLittle Inc