16. The use of breath analysis to determine recent or long-
term exposure to indoor VOC was described by LANCE WALLACE of the
EPA. Breath analysis has been used extensively in occupational
settings where individual VOC are in the parts per million range;
indoor air concentrations are in the parts per billion range,

Previous use of breath analysis led to the discovery that cig-
arette smoking is the main source of exposure to benzene and sty-
rene for active smokers, according to Wallace.

A new, portable breath measurement system has been developed
that allows subjects to breathe naturally, but still collects
about 98-99% alveolar air.

17. A coauthor of the Wallace paper, SYDNEY GORDON of the IIT
Research Institute in Chicago, discussed a study he did to iden-
tify unique VOC in exhaled breath of smokers.

He analyzed the VOC in the breath of 26 smokers and 43 non-
smokers in an effort to find possible biomarkers resulting from
exposure to cigarette smoke.

The EPA's ongoing TEAM (Total Exposure Assessment Methodology)
Study measured exhaled breath concentrations of 20-25 target VOC
from 200 smokers and 322 nonsmokers (using gas chromatography/-
mass spectrometry). Smokers showed significantly elevated breath
concentrations of benzene, styrene, ethylbenzene, and other com-
pounds. The results suggested that there may be other compounds
in exhaled breath that are better able to differentiate between
smokes and nonsmokers. In his study, Gordon reexamined a subset
of TEAM breath data seeking to identify markers in the breath of
smokers that would be able to distinguish them from nonsmokers.

He reported that overall, the breath components which discrim-
inated best between smokers and nonsmokers were 2.5-dimethyl fur-
an and 1-methyl-1,3-cyclopentadiene, with the former playing a
dominant role in distinguishing between the two groups. Neither
element was included in a recently compiled national VOC data
base of 320 VOC, consisting of 261 such compounds measured in
outdoor air and 66 measured indoors. However, 2,5-dimethyl furan
has been identified as a major gas-phase constituent of tobacco
smoke. It was previously identified in exhaled breath samples
with a 60% occurrence frequency, but its potential as a marker of
smoke exposure could not be determined from this Study because no
distinction was made between smokers and nonsmokers.

Gordon said 2,5-dimethyl furan appears to be an effective bio- .
indicator of smoking and analysis of exhaled breath should pro-
vide a reliable, noninvasive method for mass screening studies.

18. Using an experimental box in which tobacco smoke was in-
jected with a syringe, TOSHIE IWATA of Waseda University, Tokyo,
found that more of the PM in the smoke adhered to the floor than
to other surfaces. He determined this with a new technique based
on infrared spectroscopy.

= ee

SS0008248

 

The higher the concentration of smoke injected, the more PM
was adhered.