‘ March 5, 1991

MEMORANDUM

a MAR 11 1991

TO: Dr. James F. Glenn CC: HCM
RFG

FROM: Hilda and Leonard Zahn

SUBJECT: International Conference on Indoor Air Quality and
Climate, Toronto, Canada, July 29-Aug 3, 1991

A speaker at the opening session said that in seeking to con-
serve energy in recent years, “we have created a monster." The
monster has several faces: medical problems, building problems
(which have expanded beyond the "sick building syndrome" of com-
mercial buildings to include residential homes and even apart-
ments), and social, economic and political problems.

Other aspects are involved as well. Research into indoor air
quality (IAQ) has grown at a tremendous rate since the first in-
ternational meeting on the subject was held in 1978. Until re-
cently, scientific attention had been focused chiefly on outdoor
air quality;-.now, however, there is a new science -- indoor air
chemistry -- with more funds and more investigators, especially
in the industrialized nations. There also is a surprising amount
of work going on in less-developed countries, much of it in col-
laboration with western researchers.

There is more concern about IAQ because most people spend
about 80-90% of their time indoors during their lives, and tight-
ened structures generate and retain more harmful or potentially
harmful organisms, agents, gases, odors, and particulates. The
list contains hundreds of items, some of them produced naturally
by the human organism.

The overall situation is compounded by the fact that the com-
plex actions of- many indoor substances as well as the interac-
tions between them are presently little understood. The immense
amount of variability of human reactions to agents indoor adds to
the complexity of trying to determine what factor (s) may create
a risk and who is at risk upon exposure.

Scientists are not always helpful with data that often seem to
be a bit far out. For example, taking a shower subjects everyone
to inhalation or dermal absorption of a number of volatile organ-
ic compounds (VOC) in the water. Many of these chemicals have
been shown to be harmful to health.

It seems valid to say that people in the developed countries
generally are not adversely affected by all the putatively harm-
ful substances they encounter every day while they are indoors.

It is equally valid to say that nobody really can say what are @

the long-term effects of many of the things floating in the in- oS

door air. oO

°

°

a

eonard PUBLIC RELATIONS COUNSEL °
ahn

and Associates, Inc.
13 LINCOLN ROAD «P.O. BOX 223 *GREAT NECK, N.Y. 11022 *(516)482-5715

 

pete ete ne Lalli