to S. KATHERINE HAMMOND of the University of Massachusetts at
Amherst. She also found that among nonsmokers, higher levels of
4-ABP adducts were found in those with the highest nicotine expo-

sures from ETS.

Hammond detected 4-ABP, a carcinogen, in the hemoglobin of 40
nonsmoking pregnant women and 15 smoking pregnant women. She said
4-ABP has few other common environmental sources other than to-
bacco, though it has been found to be a potent bladder carcinogen
in dye industry workers.

A significant relationship also was found between ETS exposure
in the third trimester of pregnancy and the levels of 4-ABP hemo-
globin adducts found at time of delivery. This relationship re-
mained after subjects with possible exposure to gas stoves were
excluded from the data set. According to Hammond, this indicates
that exposure to ETS is related to carcinogen levels in non-
smokers. However, she added, the increase she detected was not
dramatic and its meaning is unclear.

5. Indoor coal fumes are an independent risk factor for stroke
in addition to cigarette smoking, age and diastolic pressure,
reported SHUN-ZHANG YU of Shanghai Medical University in China.

He came to this conclusion, which he called surprising and
unexpected, after studying 957 male factory workers who entered a
screening program for coronary heart disease and stroke that be-
gan in 1972 and ended in 1984. During this period, 24 men with no
previous indication of heart disease or stroke died from the lat-
ter ailment.

At entry into the study, all the subjects were divided into
three groups according to the type of fuel used in their homes:
heavy pollution group for those using coal as a fuel; no pollu-
tion group for those using only gas; and slight pollution group
for those using both coal and gas.

Analysis of the data, which included indoor air sampling,
showed that coal use was an independent risk factor for stroke.
The relative risk for stroke among those heavily exposed to coal
fumes was 9.72.

Yu said stroke is a serious public health problem in China and
is responsible for 17% of all male deaths, at least in one large
area of Shanghai. Coal fumes are a major source of indoor air
pollution throughout China and especially in Shanghai, where
about about one million families, half the number of families in
the city, use coal as their primary fuel.

6. A study of lung cancer in women in Guangzhou, one of
China's largest cities, has concluded that the primary cause
seems to be the use of coal for cooking.

The study, conducted by YING-XIU DU of Guangzhou Medical Col-
lege, said that the death rate for lung cancer among women in the

8P00082.8

SNR N SEMEN TAME IONE TERS FEET ODED OEM TG ISTE