|

|
|

|
|

)

Would someone who showers every morning for his or her adult
life be at an increased risk of lung cancer or some other kind of
cancer from the chloroform released by the hot water? What if the
person was a smoker, or a nonsmoker in a house or workplace where
others smoked? Is there radon seeping into the house/workplace?
What type of paint, flooring, carpeting, cleaning agents, etc.,
are used on the premises? They all give off potentially harmful
agents. Is gas used for cooking? The list could go on and on.

The burgeoning indoor air research effort has produced many
benefits. Scientists have developed new techniques and equipment
and refined older methodology in order to more accurately find,
measure or estimate concentrations of various substances in in-
door environments as well as in humans themselves. However, some
of the research seems to be, if not repetitive, almost too much
of the same thing.

We have attended all five international IAQ meetings since
1978. The increase in reports of relevant data has been obvious
with each succeeding conference. Yet, at times, there seems to be
too much reporting, not of bits and pieces of helpful informa-
tion, but of shreds and minutiae.

The Toronto meeting covered a wide range of usual, and occa-
sionally unusual, IAQ subjects. There was new and interesting in-
formation on several aspects. One study, from mainland China, re-
lated the burning of coal to causation of stroke. Other Chinese
research claimed "smoky" coal was the cause for the tremendously
high incidence of lung cancer in nonsmoking women in one area of
the country.

Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) was the subject of frequent
comments and also of a number of reports. ETS is the major source
of indoor particulate matter, according to some speakers. Several
papers dealt with the harmful effects of ETS. One speaker, ina
lengthy review of the literature, noted that smoking is "rapidly
becoming an unimportant source" of indoor air pollution in public
buildings and the workplace.

The highlights:

1. There were a number of reports during the meeting on health
effects of radon (Rn), the single most important source of irra-
diation of the general population. One such report by a British
scientist active in the field said ETS may lower the Rn dose to
exposed humans.

In saying this, J.N. PRITCHARD of the Harwell Laboratory in
Oxfordshire meant that ETS can effect the radiation dosimetry of
indoor Rn by modifying the behavior of its short-lived decay
products -- polonium 214 and 218, lead 214, and bismuth 214.

bEO00S8Z8

First, ETS significantly enhances the concentration of air-
borne particles, thereby reducing the unattached fraction. (When
Rn decays, the products deposit on a surface, such as a room's