He concluded that while RSP is a necessary indicator of indoor
air quality in general, it is an inappropriate sign of ETS in
restaurants. UVPM is a better tracer because it offers some sel-
ecectivity for ETS, has good sensitivity and is easy to measure.
However, UVPM is prone to "interference" and can result in an
overestimation of the ETS contribution to RSPM. FPM is a very
good tracer of ETS, providing excellent selectivity, sensitivity
and ease of measurement. It also is prone to interference, but
none was evident in this study. Solanesol is the only true to-
bacco-specific tracer of ETS RSP available, but it is more diffi-
cult to measure than UVPM and FPM.

Using either the solanesol/RSP weight ratio approach or the
FPM approach, Ogden and his associates found that ETS contributed
about 50% on average to RSP in the restaurants.

14. Exposure to ETS and home dampness caused adverse respira-
tory symptoms in a population of nonsmoking children, reported
BERT BRUNEKREEF, University of Wageningen, Wageningen, The Neth-
erlands.

Brunekreef described a 2-year study of the respiratory health
effects of indoor exposure to nitrogen dioxide (N02), ETS and
home dampness.

There was no relationship between home NO2 exposure and symp-
toms. However, exposure to ETS and home dampness was significant-
ly associated with cough, but a borderline association was found
for wheeze and asthma. When all symptoms were combined, there was
a significant association with ETS exposure. No association was
found between indoor NO2 exposure and symptoms.

Of the more than 1000 children in the study, 985 were nonsmok-
ers and 66% were from homes where there was ETS.

15. Risk extrapolation from active to passive smoking based on
cigarette equivalents or on the presence of only one biomarker
. might be misleading, according to G. SCHERER of the German tobac-
co industry's research laboratory in Munich.

He reported a controlled study in which nonsmokers were ex-
posed either to gas phase or whole ETS. Carboxyhemoglobin, nico-
tine in both blood plasma and urine as well as urinary thioether
and 3-hydroxypropyl mercapturic acid (3-HPA) excretions were
found to increase similarly after both types of exposure.

No exposure-related increase was seen for the urinary excre-
tion of mutagenic activity. Therefore, the common biomarkers for
ETS exposure only indicate exposure to gas phase constituents of
ETS, Scherer reported.

No presently available method can quantify ETS particle up-
take, Scherer noted. Quantitative data on ETS particle exposure
probably would improve the estimate of risk of this type of ex-
posure.

| CPTETRSETETERE TASTED AT 29 FGA ESZSENTN 92S FIST SLI SUSE ISL TSG EOS SST SAT TESS TR PE