city had risen from 17.8/100,000 in 1976 to 24.7 in 1985. Only
3.9% of the women there smoke cigarettes, but more than 80% had
done considerable cooking with coal during their lives. (Du was
unable to attend the meeting and his paper was read by one of his
former students at a Canadian university.)

Du's study concentrated on data for 3,305 lung cancer deaths
that occurred in his city from 1980 to 1985; of these, 2,178 were
in males and 1,079 in females. The percentage of nonsmoking lung
cancer cases among males was only 6.7%, but in females it was as
high as 41.4%; 54% of the females did not smoke and were said to
have had no ETS exposure during their lives.

If indoor air pollution was the major source of factors that
caused lung cancer in so many females, there are still some phe-
nomena that are hard to explain, Du wrote. For example, why did
the incidence of female lung cancer increase rapidly in recent
years? And why was adenocarcinoma the major cell type in the fe-
male victims (both smokers and nonsmokers) and not epidermoid
carcinoma, the type attributed generally to exposure to benzo(a)-
pyrene (BaP)?

He said that in Guangzhou, indoor air pollution was worse than
outdoor pollution, the main source clearly was the use of coal
for domestic cooking, and that very high levels of urinary BaP
had been found in females.

7. A finding similar to that by Du was reported by XIAN YINLIN
of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, Beijing, who de-
scribed a study in Xuan Wei County, a rural area with one of
China's highest incidences of lung cancer, both in males and fe-
males (the rate in the latter is the highest in the country).

 

The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) produced by burning
"smoky" coal in homes were the major cause of the disease in the
county, she said.

   
 

ee

Her study included personal air sampling measurements in a
village with a high lung cancer incidence (109.3/100,000), where-
coal was the major fuel source, and in a low incidence
(2.3/100,000) village, where wood was the chief fuel. A number of
chemicals, including some carcinogens, were found in greater
quantities in the high-incidence village than in the low-incid-
ence village.

Concentrations of BaP from coal use were 100 times more than the 5
governmental standard.

wie

Concentrations of CO, nitrogen dioxide, formaldehyde, and VOC
were very low and showed no relationship to the high lung cancer
rate, Yinlin said. In general, no major differences were seen
between males and females in regard to pollutant exposures. PAH
seem to be the major factor in causing the disease.

ISL8

_.66000