oactivity, the increased degree of attachment will reduce the
dose under most normal domestic situations. It is estimated that
the dose reduction could be about 35%, based upon data from a
German survey.

2. Two other reports on Rn may be of interest.

A. Rn-related deaths in the U.S. are estimated at 21,600
annually, according to ANITA SCHMIDT of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), Washington, DC. The figure is not new
{though 20,000 deaths is the usual description) and Schmidt's
phraseology was "may be related."

In arriving at this total, EPA used findings from the com-
mmittee on Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation (of the
National Research Council) and the International Committee on
Radiation Protection. These findings included epidemiologic data
for underground miners that are assumed to be applicable across
an entire life span for the general population. Also included
were assumptions that Rn and cigarette smoke interact in a multi-
plicative way to induce lung cancer.

B. A large case-control study of lung cancer and domestic ex-
posure to Rn currently is under way in Winnipeg, Canada, a city
in which high Rn levels have been found in homes. The study will
look at other factors that have been implicated in the develop-
ment of lung cancer.

The Winnipeg study is using as a foundation a case-control
lung cancer study being done in Toronto. Risk factors being ex-
amined there include active smoking and ETS exposure, and occu-
pational exposure to radiation, asbestos and other carcinogens;
also included is the potential protective effect of vitamin A.

The target populations are 750 lung cancer patients and 750
controls, a goal close to being met. It is expected that the
first findings may be available before April 1993.

2. The respiratory deposition of ETS was described ina highly
technical (and sometimes confusing) report by J.J. McAUGHEY, a
colleague of Pritchard (who was a coauthor).

In radio-tracer studies, they found that deposition of ETS
particles in the tracheobronchial (TB) area of the lung, where
most lung cancers in humans originate, was very much less than
would be expected from epidemiologic estimates. However, pulmo-
nary particle deposition and vapor deposition were enhanced.

The researchers noted that the physical characteristics, and
hence respiratory deposition, of mainstream, fresh sidestream and
aged sidestream smokes were quite different, information that
must be considered when assessing risk.

9P000848

Their report drew on findings by others and on their own work
with radiolabeled smoke generated by machine, with volunteers who