8. Yinlin's study is part of a collaborative project with the
U.S. EPA. J.C. CHUANG of the Battelle research company in
Columbus, OH, reported on the chemicals that are related to lung
cancer in Xuan Wei.

Unvented smoky coal emissions were found to have the highest
levels of respirable particles, organic matter and PAH in indoor
air. These emissions also had the highest activity in short-term
bioassays and in skin tumor initiation tests in animals.

He said all the data so far -- epidemiologic, biologic and
chemical -- indicate that indoor burning of smoky coal under un-
vented conditions is a major factor for the elevated lung cancer
mortality rates in the county. There are indications, however,
that other classes of agents in addition to PAH may be involved
and work in this area is in progress.

9. Another aspect of the Xuan Wei reserch -- the possible in-
volvement of free radicals -- was described by SHI-WEI ZHOU of
Beijing.

His work dealt with analysis of particles from different fuels
-- smoky coal, smokeless coal and wood -- in an effort to see
whether free radicals in particles produced by combustion were
related to the high female lung cancer mortality in the county.

Burning of smoky coal produced the highest levels of free
radicals, Zhou said. He speculated that fine particles produced
by the combustion take up the radicals and PAH and transport them
into the deep parts of the lung where, after long exposure, they
begin to damage cellular DNA and eventually lead to cancer.

10. A new study raises some questions about relying on urine
nicotine and cotinine measurements as indications of ETS expo-
sure.

The study was somewhat unusual in that it was the most closely
controlled with respect to ETS exposure of any study done so far,
according to the man who described it, E.A. LEWIS of Brigham
Young University, Provo, UT.

He and his colleagues exposed three groups of men who had
never smoked to ETS under conditions designed to provide infor-
mation on the uptake and elimination of nicotine and its major
metabolite, cotinine. Also, the subjects were not exposed to ETS
when they were outside the controlled environment during the
course of the study. (Many researchers believe that cotinine is
the most reliable indicator of tobacco smoke exposure.)

The researchers found great variability in nicotine metabolism
in the subjects, all of whom were exposed to identical concen-
trations of ETS. The subjects retained nicotine for a long time
and that this finding suggests that the use of urine nicotine and
cotinine to estimate ETS exposure should be looked at anew.