idishig RD ERS tore eg

  

10. .

cotinine concentrations between the lowest and highest ETS expo-
sures in children and adults. Children appear to have higher con-
centrations in the same exposure conditions.

The genotoxic and carcinogenic activity of ETS has been asso-
ciated with tar adsorbed to ETS particles, Lewtas said. The most
carcinogenic materials found in PM are the tobacco specific ni-
trosamines and PAH, both of which are present in ETS in the range
of 1-100 nanograms/cubic meter. Measurements of the mutagenicity
of indoor PM is a direct measure of human exposure to the total
mix of genotoxic agents.

When she measured DNA adducts in white blood cells (WBC) (in-
cluding blood lymphocytes), placental tissue and lung cells of
Smokers and nonsmokers, she found no significant difference in
lymphocytes between the total DNA adduct levels or in the spe-
cific number of adducts detected. Another study previously re-
ported a similar finding in regard to WBC adducts. Current meth-
odology in this particular area seems unable to detect differen-
ces in adduct levels between smokers and nonsmokers.

A smoking-related DNA adduct has been found in human placental
tissue and she has observed an increase in total adduct levels in
Smokers compared to nonsmokers. Studies are under way to see if
nonsmokers exposed to ETS have detectable tobacco-related adducts
in placental tissue. A similar rise in adduct level has been re-
ported in DNA from lung autopsy tissue from smokers compared to
nonsmokers. She has found DNA adducts in lung cells lavaged from
smokers.

It appears then that indoor exposure to ETS can result in
detectable levels of DNA adducts.

 

(One of the studies at the meeting cited by Lewtas was by A.M.
COLLIER, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, on urine cot-
inine elimination half-life in young children exposed to side-
stream cigarette smoke. He said preliminary data show that there
is a change in cotinine half-life at about 18 months of age:
there's an average half-life of 60 hours in children under 18
months old and a half-life of 43 hours in children over 18
months. However, too few subjects are involved for any conclu-
sions to be drawn.

 

Another study she cited, and in which she participated, was nome .
reported by H. MATSUSHITA of Tokyo's National Institute of Public £
Health. He described development of two highly sensitive methods
for monitoring personal exposure to airborne mutagens and PAH.
The mutagen assay is an ultra microsuspension forward mutation
assay using Salmonella typhimurium TM677 which, he said, is about
100 times more sensitive than the ordinary Ames mutation test.
The method for PAH analysis consists of ultrasonic extraction and
multicolumn high performancy liquid chromatography/computer con-
trolled spectrofluorometric detection.)

Sten eater hale

OUTER