smoked who labeled cigarettes, and with measurements of lung
clearance to estimate amounts and sites of deposition.

Sidestream smoke PM, in contrast to mainstream smoke PM,
has had time to age and become diluted before being inhaled.
Previous studies have suggested that 4.3 mg of tar PM will be
inhaled daily; about 10% will deposit in the lung and of this
amount, 10% will be in the TB region and 90% in the pulmonary
region. Thus, the daily dose of tar particulate to the TB area
from ETS will average 0.043 mg (a TB deposition factor of 0.00017
relative to mainstream smoke).

The researchers noted that studies of ETS deposition are more
difficult to perform than studies of mainstream deposition be-
cause 70% of the radiolabel is in the vapor phase, leading to
various problems. One is that measurements of regional deposition
by a technique known as differential clearance become more diffi-
icult to interpret as the vapor phase label moves into the blood,
causing a higher than normal reading in the scanning equipment.

McAughey said that the increased lung cancer risk reported
from ETS exposure cannot be explained by dosimetric estimates of
tar deposition.

He noted that cigargtte smoke, both mainstream and sidestream,
is a dynamic aerosol and that its chemical and physical proper-
ties must be taken into account when considering dosimetry of tar
in the respiratory tract. This is especially important when rela-
tive risk estimates are proposed because 70% of ETS by mass is in
the vapor phase.

3. Low-yield cigarettes produce higher concentrations of in-
door pollutants than do high-yield cigarettes, reported W.S.
RICKERT of Labstat, Inc., Kitchener, Ontario, Canada.

Describing a study done with scientists from Health & Welfare
Canada (the government's health organization), he said the work
was undertaken following computer simulations predicting that for
a fixed level of smoking, ETS concentrations could differ by a
factor of two, depending on the brand smoked.

Four brands of commercially available Canadian cigarettes were
smoked in a controlled environment room. Results from 24 experi-
ments at low ventilation rates and under intermittent smoking
conditions indicated significant differences in the environmental
impact of the brands tested.

Low-yield brands gave off more toxic substances such as oxides
of nitrogen and carbon monoxide (CO) than the high-yield brands.

At higher ventilation rates, maximum concentrations were lower
and there was little difference among the brands, Rickert said.

4, Levels of 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) adducts in the blood of
smokers were 8 times higher than those in nonsmokers, according

@
al
@®
So
©
2

a
NI

 

        
     
   

ae

aS ae

Scene cpt tebe nee

OY

eR OS RY