Coronary Heart Disease Risk Factors in Men
With Light and Dark Skin in Puerto Rico

Raut Costas. Jk.. MD, Manio R. GARCtA-PALMIERI, MD. Paut Sorvie. MS.
AND ELLEN HERTZMARK. MA

a a

Abstract: The association of skin coler with coro-
nary heart disease risk factors was studied in 4,000 wre
ban Puerto Rican men. Skin color on the inner upper
arm was classified according to the von Luschan color
tiles. Using this grading, men were separated into two
groups of light or dark skin color. The dark group had
a lower socioeconomic status (SES) based on income.
education, and occupation. Dark men hac slightly
higher mean systolic blood pressures (SBP) and lower

mean serum cholestero! levels than the light, but the
relative weights and cigarette smoking habits of both
groups were similar. After controlling for the dif-
ferences in SES, skin color showed a small but statisti-
cally significant association with SBP. Whether this
association with skin color represents genetic or envi-
ronmental! influences on SBP could not be determined
from this study. (Am J Public Health 1981, 71:614-
619.)

A

Introduction

Differences in mean blood pressure values between
Blacks and Whires in the continental United States have
been observed in various studies.’ * Investigations have
centered on ascribing the higher blood pressure values in
Blacks to the effect of psychosocial processes or genetic:
environmental interactions. “*

High blocd pressure is recognized as one of the more
potent factors for the development of coronary heart dis-
ease. It is related to and possibly interacts with other risk
factors to accelerate the development of this disease. This
multiple potential for illness. disability, and death makes the
clarification of the etiology of the higher blood pressure in
Blacks of prime importance. particularly tn view of the long-
term public health goal. the primary prevention of hyper-
tension.

tn an attempt to gather data relevant to this question.
skin color was determined for subjects of the Puerto Rico
Heart Health Program. a prospective siudy of the epidemiol-
ogy of coronary heart disease. In addition to blood pressure.
various other factors studied in relation to skin color were
relative weight. physical activity. serum cholesterol, fasting
serum triglycerides. blood glucose. and measures of income.
education. and occupation.

Address reprint requests to Paul Serle, MS. Health Statisti-
cian, Biometncs Reseatch Branch. National Heart. Lung. and
Blood Incitute. Federal Building. Room 2A06, Bethesda. MD
90208. The three co-authors are with the Department of Medicine.
Schoo! of Medicine, University of Puerto Rice, San Juan. PR. This
paper, submitted to the Jovtnal Sepicinber 4. 1980. was revised and
accepted for publication November 28, 1980.

614

Ethnic Background of Puerto Rico

The people of Puerto Rico are descended, in order of
their appearance on the island, from Taino Indians, Span-
iards. West Africans, and non-Spanish Europeans.’ The In-
dians, never a large number to begin with (estimated at
30,000 to 50.000),8 were decimated by the Spaniards in vari-
ous uprisings, so that by the year 1787 only 2,302 survivors
were reported in the census.” Racial admixture between
Spaniards and Indians had occurred early and frequently. In
the year 1530, of 71 women legally married to Spaniards in
San Juan. 14 were Indians.” |

The social integration of West Africans in Puerto Rico
differs from that in mainland United States. Spanish culture
was impregnated with Catholic religious values. The church,
an important influence in early Puerto Rican history, never
sanctioned the chattel status of the Blacks nor did it segre-
gate them.’ Considerable intermarriage took place frum
earliest times.’ Mulatto children would frequently inhent
land from their White fathers, thus becoming landowners
and improving their economic situation. Pure Blacks, how-
ever, had to work for very low wages after slavery was offi-
cially abolished in 1873.

Since 1873 there has been legal’? and political’? equality
for Blacks in Puerto Rico. However, census data between
1899 and 1980 reveal a general historic pattern of drastic un-
derrepresentation of Blacks in occupations related to social
and economic improvement and social prestige.'* This pat-
tern was related to the influx into Puerto Rico of American
capital.? A study conducted by a special committee of the
Commonwealth House of Representatives as late as 1964'*
showed discrimination against Blacks in the employee selec:
tian system for Puerto Rican banks. In 1989, the Puerto Ri-
can Senate’* found discriminatory hiring practices for pri-
vate school teachers. Al the present time a casual visit to any

AJPH Juno 1981, Vol. 79, No. @