bank or other commercial institution witl shov- that such dis-
cnminatory practices are in the process of being dismantled.

For many years it was thought that the Indians of Puerto
Rico had died ovt and were no longer contriduzing to the
gene pool. If so. skim color would be a simple. if crude.
proxy for the dcgrce of Black-White admixture. However.
Indian genes seem to be present in the population at greater
than trivial levels Thieme found shovel-shaped incisors (a
“mongolian” genetic marker) in approximatcly 19 per cent
of a representative island-wide sample.‘* From historical
sources and from the geographical distribution of shovel-
shaped incisors. Indian admixture is likely to be greatest in
the hilly rural interior of the island. This means that the pop-
ulation in the rural area of this study would have the greatest
amount of Indian genes. Urban subjects would have an in-
determinate proportion of Indian admixture because of the
large rural to urban migration that has taken place in Puerto
Rico since the 1940s.

Materials and Methods

The Puerto Rico Heart Health Program is a prospective
study of coronary heart disease in a cohort of 9.824 Puerto
Rican men, the majority between 45 and 64 years of age at
entry. residing in the urban municipalities of Bayamon.
Guaynabo, and Carolina near the coastal plain, and the rural
municipalities of Naranjyito, Comerio, Barrangquitas. and Co-
rozal in the hilly interior of the island.'® Subjects had a so-
cial, dietary, and medical history taken, and a physical ex-
amination, electrocardiogram, and blood chemisines per-
formed at periodic clinic visits to determine the presence of
risk factors and to detect cardiovascular disease oulcomes.
A physician measured the blood pressure cn the left arm of
the seated subject. both at the beginning and after com-
plenon of the physical examination, using an aneroid sphyg-
momanometer standardized against a mercury apparatus.
The second blood pressure reading was used for the Tables
in this paper. Relative weight. expressed as a per cent, was
computed as the ratio of the observed weight to the Weal
weight for the observed height taken from Metropolitan Life
Insurance tables.'? The physical activity index was based on
the weighted number of hours spent in each of five physical
activity levels.’* The codes used for education level attained
were: (1) first 10 fourth grade: (2) fifth to eighth grade: (3)
high school attendance: (4) high school graduation: and (5)
university attendance or graduation. The codes used for oc-
cupation were: (0) urskiled labor; (1) skilled labor: (2) office
or sales personnel; (3) supervisors or administrators: and (4)
professionals. The serum cholesterol was determined by the
method of Huang. cf a/.'% the serum triglycerides by the
method of van Handel and Zilversmit.?” and the blood glu-
cose by the Somogyi-Nelson method.?!

Skin color was determined at the third examination, al-
most six years after the initial visit. The Anthropology De-
partment of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington. DC
recommended the use of the von Luschan color tiles?’ to
deternne shin colur. The von Luschan color tiles consisted
of 20 colored tiles representing shades of skin color from

ASPH June 1981. Vol 71. No. 6

CHD RISK FACTORS IN MEN WITH LIGHT AND DARK SKIN

TABLE 1—Puerto Rico Heart Study Population by Age end Skin
Color of Urban Bien 35-78 Years st Examination 1

 

Light Dam Torsl

Age (years) e % ° % e
35-44 97 29 15 2.4 12
45-54 1918 56.7 314 50.6 2232
55-64 1204 35.6 244 39.4 1448
65-79 161 48 47 7.6 208
TOTAL 3380 00 620 100 4000

very light to very dark. A photographic reproduction of the
tiles was matched to the skin color on the inner arm. where
the skin presumably would be minimally affected by the sun.
In an attempt to reduce inter-observer variability in assess-
ing skin color, all determinations were made by the same
individual. The data were analyzed by dichotomizing the
scale into those with light skin and those with dark skin (tiles
numbered 23 to 30 were classified as dark).

Analyses presented in this paper will use data from the
urban area only. The earlier discussion of Indian admixture
indicates that the urban area would tend to be the least af-
fected. Furthermore, consistent with historical develop-
ment, there are few individuals with dark skin in the rvral
area (101 persons from a population of 1.784), thus making
estimates subject to much higher variability and making
analyses by subclasses (e:g.. age) very tenuous.

To describe differences in characteristics by skin color
group. mean values were calculated for the light and dark
populations. Thé statistical significance of the difference in
these means was tested with the t-test. A multivariate analy-
sis of these differences was done using the multiple discrimi-
nant function analysis. If a coefficient of the discriminant
function is statistically different from zero, then the dif-
ference in means for that variable is interpreted to be statisti-
cally different from zero when the other variables are taken
into account. Analysis of factors related specifically to blood
pressure was done by calculating simple product moment
correlations between these factors and blood pressure, and
by multiple linear regression of systolic blond pressure on
these factors.

Results

Of the 6,843 urban mien who entered the Puerto Rico
Heart Program in 1965, skin color was determined in 4,000
subjects at the third examination, almost six years later.
Mean values of the risk factors under consideration were
compared for those men with and without skin color mea-
surement and no differences were found. Thus, there is no
reason to believe that there is any bias in the population
which had the determinations of skin color. The frequency of
light and dark skin within the urban groups by age is shown
in Table 1. The datk group shows an age disisibution only
slightly older than the light group.

~annnr 68