SAREE ENE CHER

 

 

Extraction

 

The round-bottom flasks which were used to concentrate the
extracts were rinsed with Surfasil silconizing fluid which was
diluted 1 to 9 with methylene chloride. Then, they were baked
for 30 minutes at 110°C. After cooling, the glassware was rinsed
with methylene chloride and allowed to air dry.

ETU was extracted from the tobacco by blending 15 grams of
tobacco for 2 minutes with 2.5 grams sodium acetate, 2.5 grams
L-cysteine, 2.5 grams potassium fluoride, and 200 mL of methanol/
water (3:2). The extract was filtered through glass microfibre
filter paper into the siliconized round-bottom flask.

Sample Cleanup

For removal of interfering compounds, the extract was concen-
trated at 40°C by rotary evaporation until its volume was approx-
imately 15 mi. Gaschrom S (10 g) was added to the concentrate
and shaken until the mixture was lump free. The mixture was
poured onto the top of a 1 x 22 inch chromatography column
Ortaerring-20y sof at tinier" Pewee -ebured” fromthe “ehromatogr eames ines “ect onamete ¢
phy column with 300 mL of 2% methanol in methylene chloride.
Water (5 mL) was added to the eluate containing the ETU, and it
was concentrated in a siliconized round-bottom flask until all of
the organic layer had been removed. After diluting to a known
volume with water, the sample was ready for HPLC analysis.

 

HPLC Method

A Perkin Elmer Series 3B liquid chromatograph was equipped with a
Burdick and Jackson OD5 octadecyl column of dimensions 250 mm x
4.6 mm with a 5 pp particle size. The mobile phase was water,
methanol (96:4) at a flow rate of 1.4 mL per minute. An injec-
tion volume of 50 HL was used. ETU was monitored at 240 nm.
Following each analysis the column was washed with methanol for
20 minutes at 2 mL per minute, and then allowed to return to the
initial equilibrium conditions. Using these conditions, the ETU
eluted slightly after 4 minutes.

Results and Discussion

Analysis of Tobacco for the Presence of ETU

Six cigarette tobaccos were analyzed for ETU. They were American
bright, two Chilean burley grades, American burley, and Turkish.
Tobacco was also collected from Kentucky Reference Cigarettes
1R4F. When these tobaccos were analyzed a small, almost unde-
tectable HPLC peak was seen at the same retention time as ETU.
This peak was equivalent to a 0.03 ppm level of ETU or less in
all of the tobaccos. For the Kentucky Reference 1R4F and the
Turkish tobacco, GC-MS was used to establish that the peak was
not ETU.

2SS8E9L8