In order to obtain a sufficient amount of the HPLC peak for
subsequent GC-MS identification, a 350 WL injection loop was
used. Two HPLC injections per sample were necessary to collect
enough of the peak for GC-MS analysis. After each injection, 2
mL of eluate containing the suspected ETU peak were collected.
The collected fractions were combined and evaporated to dryness
using the Savant Speedvac sample concentrator. A control was
prepared by adding ETU to the HPLC mobile phase at a level
Similar to that expected for the tobacco. The dried residues
were derivatized with 10 wL of Methelute derivatizing agent
(Pierce Chemical Co.) generating the dimethyl derivative of ETU.
ETU was detected by electron impact mass spectrometry, 70 eV,
with a scan range of 33 to 200 amu.

ETU was not detected in either the Kentucky Reference 1R4F or
Turkish tobaccos by GC-MS, but it was detected in the control.
Thus, it was concluded that the small peak in these tobacco
extracts was not ETU.

Detection Limit

Tome seen TOE OE CEE Bd LOB alc Wes Pa iat Le BE Ssh sh chee err
limit of the HPLC method for tobacco. It was determined to be
0.07 ppm. At this level ETU was easily detected by HPLC-UV, and
its presence in the collected HPLC peak could be confirmed by GC-
MS. Although, the HPLC-UV system was capable of detecting ETU in
standards at less than the detection limit, interferences from
tobacco become increasingly significant below 0.07 ppm.

 

Recovery of ETU from Fortified Tobacco

The recoveries of ETU for this method were established by analyz-
ing fortified tobacco. Tobacco was fortified at two levels: 0.7
ppm..and.-.0..07 -ppm......Eight..15...g..samples..of,tobacco..were fortified
with 10 ug of ETU (0.7 ppm) and analyzed. Taking into account
the area of the small peak that elutes with ETU, the recovery of
the ETU was determined by dividing the recovered ETU by the 10 Ig
ETU added to the tobacco. For 0.7 ppm ETU, the recoveries ranged
from 74% to 91%, as shown in Table 1. The average recovery was
82.3% with a standard deviation of 6.7. Chromatograms of a
tobacco fortified with 0.7 ppm ETU and non-fortified tobacco are
presented in Figure 1. Duplicate analyses were performed for
each type of tobacco.

Recovery studies were also done using radiolabeled ETU. ETU-c"‘
was synthesized from ethylenediamine-1,2-'C (Sigma Chemical
Company, St. Louis, MO, 63178) as described by Allen (6).

A Hewlett Packard 1090M liquid chromatograph equipped with a
LC-B-RAM radioactivity detector was used to analyze the ETU-c"'*.
Tobacco (15 g) was fortified with 1.5 mg of ETU-'*C and extracted
according to the described method. This higher level, 100 ppm,
was needed for radioactive detection. For one determination, a
recovery of 87% of the radioactivity as ETU was observed.

ESS8E9L8

 

4