we ON RGU Gee RTs RMB, Ee SBE!

HPLC DETERMINATION OF ETHYLENETHIOUREA RESIDUES ON TOBACCO

Introduction

Ethylene (bis) dithiocarbamate (EBDC) fungicides have commonly been
used on agricultural food crops. Although these fungicides are
not frequently used on tobacco, limited use is permitted during
blue mold outbreaks in certain areas of the United States, and
they are sometimes applied to foreign tobaccos. There has been
concern that EBDC fungicides decompose to generate ethylene-
thiourea (ETU), a suspected carcinogen. A method was developed
to determine ETU residues on tobacco.

Of the many methods that have been published for the determina-

tion of ETU, only one method existed for determining ETU on

tobacco (1-4). This method was found to be unsatisfactory for

detecting low levels of ETU on tobacco (less than 1 ppm).

Several other methods reported for the analysis of ETU on foods

ERR AE LTRS aT ET EE LT LI TS MT ES EE IPEY DOLE Cy Ta EP RTS EE OIDs Sea cr Sn

Of the methods investigated, an HPLC method developed by Krause
for the determination of ETU residues on foods was found to give
the best results (4). However, recovery of ETU on tobacco using
this method was only around 60%. It was discovered that ETU
quickly decomposes in the tobacco extract solutions. In the
literature, L-cysteine had been used to inhibit ETU decomposition
on crops during storage (5). Based upon this information, L-
cysteine was added to the extraction solution and recovery of ETU
was increased from 60% to greater than 80%.

Materials and.Method |

Materials

HPLC grade solvents and commercially available reagent grade
chemicals were used. Gaschrom S adsorbent was purchased from
Alltech Associates, Inc. The alumina (aluminum oxide) used for
sample cleanup was 80 to 200 mesh, activated. Surfasil sili-
conizing fluid used to treat glassware was purchased from Pierce
Chemical Company. Whatman glass microfibre filters GF/B were
used to filter samples.

Apparatus

An explosion-proof Waring Laboratory blender was used for the
extraction. The HPLC analysis was performed on a Perkin Elmer
Series 3B liquid chromatograph equipped with an LC-75 spectropho-
tometric detector. A Buchi Rotavapor R rotary evaporator was
used to concentrate extracts.

Tsssegzg