A sample of 3-hydroxycotinine, a metabolite of nicotine found
in urine, was obtained and spotted on thin layer
chromatography (TLC) plates, along with nicotine, cotinine,
_ and their internal gas chromatography standards. Only the
_3~hydroxycotinine was seen. after development with iodine.
Probably the. concentrations of the nicotine and cotinine were
too low to be seen by TLC. The 3-hydroxycotinine standard was
injected on the GC under standard conditions, and the
condition of an ambient oven and a cold (60 deg. C) injector.
‘Although the retention times varied, the peak shapes were the
same under both conditions. The .3-hydroxycotinine will be
injected on the mass spectrometer to be sure that it did not
degrade when injected at the higher temperature of the GC.

Standard solutions of nicotine and cotinine and their internal
‘Standards made up in ethyl acetate showed the same GC peak
shapes and area ratios as similar solutions made up in
-lsopropanol.

Psychophysiology of Smoking - The 7680 evoked potentials (EPs)

-collected during the smoking/stress EP study were converted to
ASCII format, corrected for pre-stimulus baseline drift, and
digitally filtered. The next step in data analysis will be to

measure smoking effects. on the latency (time from stimulus:

onset to peak amplitude) of the P300 EP. One study in the
. Literature has reported that smoking tends to decrease this
response measure, -indicating faster. perceptual information
‘processing following smoking. :

Plans were made to begin running 16 subjects through the
spontaneous -brain wave. (electroencephalogran, or EEG)

-. - ‘smoking/stress: study beginning August 8. This study will
'. examine interactive effects of personality and smoking on the

EEG under conditions of high and low mental arousal. Four
‘conditions will be employed; 1) eyes closed - no task, 2) eyes
open - no task,'3) eyes open.- count forward rapidly by 3s and
4) eyes open .- count backwards rapidly by 3s. The four
conditions will be administered in'a random, counterbalanced
order twice before and twice after smoking a full-flavor (FF)
cigarette. Subjects will be tested in the morning after
having abstained from smoking overnight (verified by expired
air CO level). Previous experiments have indicated that
smoking tends to shift the EEG power spectrum from a lower
arousal pattern (consisting of high voltage, slow wave
activity) toward a higher arousal pattern of low voltage, fast
wave activity. Smoking also has been reported to increase the
dominant frequency of the alpha rhythm (activity in the 8-12
Hz band), another index of mental activation.

Support to Brands R&D ~ Preparations are being made for the
shutting down of Project’ HSB sites in Tucson, Arizona and
Savannah, Georgia and return of the equipment to
Winston-Salem. The Buffalo, New York and St. Clairsville,
Ohio sites will remain active, along with a Winston-Salem site
near the Bellomy Research offices. Additional projects are
being planned for the active sites.

ol
fo)
a |
°
@
ft
23)
a
a