. INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE R.J.Reynolds Tobacco Com pany
ae Winston-Salem. N.C. 27102

2 a = TERE 918775 oon
FROR CONFIDENTIAL

August 11, 1988

TO:. Dr. G. Robert pi Marco

RE: Weekly Highlights - Biochemical/Biobehavioral R&D
Week Ending August 5, 1988 ,

ITEMS FOR WEEKLY BRIEF
SR SRIEE

-'@ Biochemical Seminar - Dr. George Lunt, Professor of
7 Biochemistry, University of Bath, United Kingdom, presented a
‘Seminar on the results of RIRT. sponsored research he is
conducting on the functional properties of nicotinic receptors
in the central nervous system. Dr. Lunt also described the
use of a’ state-of-the-art, computer-based molecular modeling

‘system in the study of transmitter-receptor interactions.

-@ SAS ETS Survey - Ms. Mary Ward, Drs. Charles Green and Guy
** .Oldaker met with | representatives of Philip Morris in

' Washington, D.c. on August 3 to discuss whether R. J. Reynolds
should support a --project to survey ETS exposure onboard
Scandinavian Airline System (SAS) aircraft. - The study would

. involve DC9-40 and -50- aircraft flights throughout Europe

~ . originating from SAS bases in Stockholm, Oslo and Copenhagen.

- .° The European industry is interested in the study in response
to the forthcoming British Air smoking ban and the U.S.

future. legislative hearings. Philip Morris desires that this
project he Sponsored by the Center for Indoor Air Research
(CIAR),. of which ‘they, as well as _R. J. Reynolds and
Lorillard, are members. The Swedish Tobacco Association and
BAT have also been asked for funding. IfR. J. Reynolds
elects to participate, our direct participation would involve
technical direction only. Sampling and analyses are to be
‘performed by TNO, a - laboratory located in Delft, the
Netherlands. TNO has developed a sampling system similar to
R. J. Reynolds! portable air sampling system (PASS) that they
intend to use in the Survey. Philip Morris and TNO scientists
_ are working together to evaluate the performance of this
Sampling device relative to the pass. Results of the

a
°
~l
2
©
aN
oO
Q
fs