One hundred one (101) monthly personnel dosimeters at Plaza,
BGTC, Whitaker Park, #50-1, #1 Complex, #64, and Tobaccoville
were exchanged. The July badges were returned to R. S.
Landauer for analysis.

Center of Toxicology

e Mr. David Taylor attended the Quarterly Meeting of the
. ,Organization Resources Counselors (ORC). Much of the meeting -
revolved around the legislation that is being pushed by OSHA
for publication before the election this fall. This is quite
- @ifferent from the past when very little was done on the
regulatory scene in an election year. Other items of interest
were as follows:

- Diagnosis and treatment of hydrofluoric (HF) burns.
~ Update on NIOSH's health hazard evaluation branch.

.™ Prevention of back injuries (leading cause of disability in
workers under age of 45).

- Discussion on health risks of indoor air pollution.

- A chance to informally meet the Director of OSHA's
Compliance Programs, Mr. Tom Shepic.

e Dr. Rob Harrington attended -a joint conference sponsored by
the Society of the Plastics. Industry and National Food
" -Processors Association which addressed the issue of microwave
.. packaging materials. Currently, the FDA has not established
»' » guidelines specifically. for microwave packaging. Since the
..y Temperatures encountered during microwave cooking may exceed
“ 100°C, concern has been voiced by the -FDA regarding possible
:. migration of “packaging components into the food. The
_" consensus of the attendees was to establish valid scientific
procedures for measuring components migrating from packaging
and set up a database for the information generated.

@ Dr. Scott Appleton presented preliminary results of
' mutritional studies on. six test substances to representatives
of Nabisco Brands on Monday.

e Dr. Scott Appleton met with Dr. Clifford Hesseltine (Northern
.. Regional Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture)
ta obtain information on the economic impact of mycotoxins in
foods and feeds. Specific information obtained included U. s.
Agricultural production statistics and the incidence of
mycotoxin contamination in various agricultural products. The
information is being assembled as part of Dr. Appleton's
; function of a Council for Agrilcultural Science and Technology
(CAST) Task Force on the economic and health risks associated
with mycotoxins.

an
Oo
~l
°
a
Ba
oO
~I
~~