Toxicology Research

Biochemical Toxicology

Arrangements were made for Dr. Roger Coulombe's visit to R&D
on August 12. During his visit, Dr. Coulombe will be
presenting a seminar to R&D personnel, as well as meeting with
individuals from Biochemical/Biobehavioral R&D.

Genetic Toxicology

Ms. Betsy Reed and Ms. Cindy Fulp tested the effects of sodium
selenite on the Ames mutagenicity of cigarette smoke

condensate (CSC) to confirm a report by Chortyk et al. (USDA)

that stated selenium reduced the mutagenicity “of cigarette
smoke. Our experiment exhibited only a minor impact; far less
than. claimed by. cChortyk et al. The effects of S9
concentration on the. antimutagenicity of selenium are -being
investigated at present.

Applied Toxicology

Sensory irritation tests continued in support of the VRP
program using sidestream smoke and male Swiss-Webster mice.

The German. verband again requested assistance in the design of

‘a chronic: inhalation study with ETS. A meeting in Munich is
‘planned for September 5 to discuss the design of the

experiment.

Scientific Affairs

Ingredients/Processes - Dr. Scott Appleton provided technical

‘support to the RJRT Law Department.

Ms. Donna Tuttle is currently assembling information on all
cigarette tobacco ingredients used domestically for
preparation of the fourth annual HHS list.

Pesticides - A single sample of flue-cured tobacco was
reviewed for New Product Technology (NPT). The CAG process
concentrates this pesticide by three-fold. A single sample of
the burley wrap tobacco for NPT did not have any detectable
dicamba residue. ~ It was recommended that more than a single
sample of flue-cured tobacco be analyzed in the future, in
view of the variability of dicamba residues that we have
experienced thus far.

Brazilian tobacco from two dealers, E. R. Sykes & Co. and
Middle Belt Suppliers, was cleared for purchase. Brazilian

.tobacco from a third dealer, Dibrell Brothers, was not cleared

because endosulfan and hexachlorobenzene analyses were not
conducted.

U1
Oo
~]
Oo
@
iS
®
o
a