. .. The results of dicamba analyses of CG-5TI blend, made from a
blend of Brazilian and South Carolina tobaccos was reviewed.
No residues of dicamba were detectable (<0.03 ppm).

A report on a returned, "infested" Islands (Japan) product was
prepared. After examination by R&D entomologists, it was
concluded that the damage to these cigarettes was not the work
of cigarette beetles. The. most likely explanation was a
defect during manufacture which resulted in spillage of
adhesive or ‘some other similar material onto the cigarette
with resultant erosion or tearing of the paper during
packaging. The amount of material present is not sufficient
to conduct an analytical screen to determine the cause of the
damage.

In response to a request from RJRTI, Dr. Steve Saunders

_ prepared a status report on an article published in Brazil

reporting high levels of uranium in Brazilian cigarettes. The

article contained: many confusing an@ «inaccurate statements

' regarding radiation biology, and it is not clear whether the

“article represents truly new information or is a rehash of the

: ‘polonium/tobacco story. Relevant literature citations are

. being gathered so that a comprehensive analysis can be
prepared within the next two weeks.

‘Results .of dicamba- analyses of two samples of Tobacco
International F-156 blend were reviewed. Values were 0.1 and
0.06 ppm, well below the current guideline value of 0.5 ppn.

@ Manufacturing - Four materials were reviewed and approved for
use.

- Approved the use of Purge III Insect Killer for use in

- - mon-production areas.. This pesticide-contains pyrethrins,

a (naturally occurring insecticides. extracted from plants).

‘.« . Pyrethrins have.a low order of toxicity to humans but are

- effective in the control of insects. Pyrethrins are less

persistent in the environment than other pesticides such as
organochlorines.

~ Approved the use of a plastic core plug used to stabilize

: . polypropylene overwrap film on pallets. This plastic core
is composed of polyethylene, which has a low order of
toxicity. Its major pyrolysis products are COz and Co.
The potential for pieces of this material getting into
product are extremely small.

- Approved the use of NABC Non-Acid Disinfectant Bathroom .

, Cleaner and Citro-Shield Furniture Polish for use in
non-production areas. Since no request was made for use in
production areas, no formal evaluation of the components
was conducted.

One material safety data sheet was prepared for Clary Sage Oil
American Topping produced by the Avoca Farm of RJRT for sale
to an outside consumer. Clary Sage Oil American Topping is

al
©
~J
Oo
0
b
Oo
Oo
co