Environmental Tobacco Smoke

Acrolein In Cigarette Smoke - Efforts are in progress to

‘ implement methodology for acrolein determination in mainstream
and sidestream smoke based upon the addition reaction of

butanethiol to unsaturated aldehydes. This avenue is being

pursued as a possible alternative procedure to the currently

used 2,4-DNPH derivatization with HPLC analysis which yields
substantial acrolein derivative decay with time. Gas
chromatographic . conditions have been established and
calibration data exhibit good linearity. Preliminary data
from both sidestream and mainstream smoke of K1R4F cigarettes
indicate that the separation is adequate for reliable
quantitation. However, valid quantitation is not yet possible
due to difficulties encountered in smoke collection.

_NPT Project Support - Experiments have been completed for the

analysis of selected sidestream smoke ‘constituents. ETS
chemistry for the last phase of analysis is 60% complete. The
ETS. chamber comparison of NOW 84, Carlton Menthol, SP6 and
SP6M continues. In addition, subject blank runs are included

-in the study in.order to determine background chamber

concentrations of the measured analytes in the absence of

‘smoking. To date, a total of .20 experiments have been
completed; thirty chamber runs are planned to yield six

“ yeplicate experiments per product. A LFE microprocessor

controller for the ETS chamber has malfunctioned and must be

.. repaired or replaced before experiments can be resumed. The
“projected completion date for the comparison study is now

August 17, 1988. Samples of whole mainstream smoke have been

...cOllected for analysis in the Ames’ test. Work on
‘ documentation of the program and results to date continues

with completion planned for the end of August. Reports are in
preparation describing new -methodologies, -revisions, and

. collected results.. Appropriate routes for literature
“publication of this material are currently being planned.

Mle

A. Wallace Hay¢ds

ai
©
~l
o
©
Db
oO
~J
N