Support to ETS - Progress on the validation eof the eye-blink
_ technology continued. A testing area has been established in
611-12/112. Experimental hardware will be completed with the
arrival of a video screen-splitter scheduled for delivery on
August 10, 1988. Testing is scheduled to begin August is,
1988.

Basic Senso Research - Photo-ionization detectors were used
to characterize the performance of the Human Odor testing
facility. The accuracy, reliability and response time of both
the nasal and ocular olfactometers were tested. Additionally,
the time course of arrival of odor stimuli at the nose and eye
ports of the custom-fitted mask was measured. These results
will be included in a Manuscript being prepared for internal
approval during the next two weeks. The document describes
the apparatus and procedure developed at BGTC for the
. automated measurement of the psychophysical and physiological
‘responses of humans to odorant stimulation of the nose and
eyes.

Nicotine Receptor Pharmacolo .7 Control experiments were

“i. ‘performed to verify. that anti-idiotypic antibodies against

Nicotine labeled nicotinic receptors ‘located exclusively on
neuronal cells. The.results indicated that there was no
binding to glial cells. .. Indirect immunofluorescence was
detected primarily on neuronal processes, and to a lesser
extent on cell bodies. . The presence of dense Clusters of
receptors near the terminal regions of long processes suggests
that the sites may be in transit to.synaptic locations. This
would more than likely reflect an early developmental
phenomenon associated with fetal cortical neurons.

Dr. Jon Lindstrom (Salk Institute) has agreed to send
additional monoclonal antibodies raised against rat brain
nicotinic receptors, and against receptors from Torpedo as a
control, to be used in studies to isolate/purify
receptor-bearing neurons from the heterogeneous population of
cortical cells.

), ANalog Research Program - Dr. Tomas Hudlicky (TDC Research)

has completed syntheses of a series of nicotine salts that are

to be incorporated into CONAR structure-activity studies at

the University of Colorado.

Miscellaneous - Dr. Eric Fluhler reported to work in the
Biobehavioral Division on August 4. He will be conducting
studies on nicotine receptor function, using ion-selective
fluorescent probes in conjunction with image analysis
techniques.

gl
oO
~
Oo
a
f
@
O
N“