composed of the low boiling distillates of Clary Sage Oil.
The major components of this topping are generally recognized
as safe. This liquid is not expected to be acutely toxic by
ingestion.

Approved the use of More Red Ink manufactured by the Crescent
Ink Company. - All these inks consist of -pigments that have a

low order of toxicity suspended in a solvent matrix. No

adverse health effects are expected from the use of these inks
on the outside of packaging materials.

Evaluated potential product contamination (88-23). Several
-pieces of. white plastic were discovered in the tobacco. The
‘analysis performed by Mr. Sterling White (R&D Technical
Services) determined this plastic is composed of polyethylene.
- Polyethylene is a polymer with a low order of toxicity which

‘generates primarily CO and COz upon pyrolysis.

On August 1 a gasket in the first stage Freon condenser at
63-1 ruptured allowing chilled water containing Drewguard 315
(a corrosion inhibitor) and Drewguard 254 (a biocide) to mix
with the Freon in the system “(product contamination 88-24).
‘Drewguard 254 contains gluteraldehyde. Drewguard 315 contains
‘sodium molybdate, sodium hydroxide and sodium tolytriazole.
When the Freon and water were mixed, a bio~layer was
‘established. These water treatment chemicals are

. .preferentially attracted: to the water layer, which is removed

“from the’ Freon. ‘According -to our calculations, the residual
‘amounts of these water. treatment chemicals remaining in the
Freon should be insignificant from a toxicological
perspective.

“Industrial Hygiene .- Messrs. David Taylor, Mike Edens, and Ms.

“.. Rngie Bostrom reviewed, the proposal for an MSDS and Chemical
- Inventory ©’ Data Base . Management from International

Technologies, Inc. The ‘proposal recommends using the RJRT
Central IBM Computer as the basis for the system. A meeting

has been scheduled with Environmental Engineering and various
‘RIRT computer specialists to discuss the proposal.

Mr. Mike Edens reviewed. the potential hazard associated with
the installation of a hand painting area in Plant 601. The
area is being considered as part of renovations that will
require removal of an existing spray painting booth. Plant
management has expressed a desire to relocate the booth, but
‘currently considers the expense to move the booth and bring it
up to current code as prohibitive. A meeting has been
scheduled with 601 engineering staff and a painting
- contractor to determine the cost and benefits of taking parts
off-site to be painted.

Mr. Mike Edens visited Plants 90-3 and 92 and the Durhan

’ Storage Sheds to review their confined spaces. Plans have

been made to visit Number One Cigarette, Plant 603, and Davie
County Stemmery the week of August 8, 1988.

gl
©
~j
o
a
f
Oo
~
o