CRC contract RESEARCH CENTER

PRIORITY

 

411/97

Study Plan B3311 / P 0500/3311 1999/1/11 Page 2

2 Objective

The present 14-day inhalation study on mice will be performed to assess the genotoxic activity of ©
the mainstream smoke (MS) of the Reference Cigarette 1R4F as determined in the micronucleus
(MN) assay In bone marrow and circulating blood erythrocytes and reticulocytes of B6C3F, mice.

3 Background

The in vivo MN test is used to detect clastogenic and/or aneugenic effects, i.e., damage to the
chromosomes or the mitotic apparatus of cells during mitosis resulting in the formation of
micronuclei, which are lagging chromosome fragments or whole chromosomes. The effects are
analyzed in cells that are normally devoid of a nucleus such as erythrocytes sampled in bone

marrow and/or circulating blood cells of rodents.

In the mouse strain B6C3F,, Coggins et al. (1990) reported a slight Increase in the number of
micronucleated polychromatic eryihrocytes in bone marrow following head-only exposure to MS ,
of 1R4F cigarettes at a concentration of 640 pg total particulate matter (TPM) (1 h/d for 14 d).
The authors characterized the effect as “...either positive or negative, depending on the
statistical test applied’. The proposed study is designed to investigate this finding with higher
credibility, by applying the same experimental conditions but using double the number of mice
per group, expanding the assay to a second target (blood in addition to bone marrow) and using
2 independent and different evaluation methods (on circulating blood only).

The method is based on the following principle: when a bone marrow erythroblast develops into
a reticulocyte and iater into a polychromatic erythrocyte, the main nucleus is expelled within days
and any micronucleus that has been formed remains behind in the otherwise anucleated
cytoplasm. Consequently, micronuclei are easily recagnizable in bone marrow erythrocytes for
immediate effects and in circulating blood reticulocytes and erythrocytes for accumulated effects.
An increase in the frequency of micronucleated reticulocytes and erythrocytes in treated animals :

is an indication of induced chromosome or mitotic apparatus damage. The change in ratio i

between immature and mature erythrocytes can be indicative of toxicity to the hematopoietic i

system.

yellow
Y

a

-€802

__ beL862