J

 

ARTICLES

Xenograft Model of Progressive Human

Proliferative Breast Disease

Fred R. Miller, Herbert D. Soule, Larry Tait, Robert J. Pauley,
Sandra R. Wolman, Peter J. Dawson, Gloria H. Heppner*

 

Background: Progression of proliferative breast disease
has been associated with increased risk for development
of invasive carcinoma. Cell lines have been developed to
facilitate the study of this process. Human cell] line
MCFIO0A originated from spontaneous immortalization of
breast epithelial cells obtained from a patient with
fibrocystic disease, and cell lines MCF10AneoN and
MCF10AneoT were created by stable transfection of
these cells with the neomycin-resistance gene and either
the HRAS gene or the mutated T-24 HRAS gene, re-
spectively. Purpose: Our goal was to develop an
experimental model of progressive human proliferative
breast disease. Methods: MCF10A, MCF10AneoN, and
MCF10AneoT cells were injected subcutaneously into the
dorsal flank of male nude/beige (C57/BALB/c nu/nu bg/
bg) mice (12 mice for each cell type). These mice were
examined periodically for formation and persistence or
growth of palpable nodules. One mouse per group was
killed 1 week after cell injection; thereafter, mice were
observed as long as possible. Cells were recovered from
palpable lesions by enzymatic dissociation of the excised
lesions. Cells re-established in tissue culture from a
week-14 tumor (MCF10AneoT.TG1) were injected into
12 male nude/beige mice. Southern blot hybridization
analysis of the HRAS gene locus and cytogenetic analyses
were performed. Results: Transplanted MCF10A and
MCF10AneoN cells formed transient, small palpable
nodules that regressed and disappeared during the 4th
and 5th weeks. In 10 of the 12 mice, T-24 HRAS gene-
transfected MCF10A cells (MCF10AneoT) formed small,
flat nodules that persisted for at least 1 year. Three of
these xenografts became carcinomas. One (removed 7
weeks after transplantation) was an undifferentiated
carcinoma composed of polygonal cells with large,
vesicular nuclei and numerous mitoses. The second
(removed after 14 weeks) was an invasive squamous cell
carcinoma. The third (removed after 56 weeks) was a
moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. Initially,
xenografts of MCFLOAneoT.TG1 cells showed intraductal
proliferative changes; after 23 weeks, the lesions showed

Journal of the National Cancer Institute, Vol. 85, No. 21, November 3, 1993

histologic features resembling those seen in atypical
hyperplasia of the human breast, and later lesions
showed characteristics of carcinoma in situ. The MCF10
lineage of cells of three MCF10AneoT.TG1 xenografts
was confirmed by DNA fingerprinting and karyotype anal-
ysis. Conclusions: MCF10AneoT and MCF10AneoT.TG1
comprise a transplantable xenograft medel that produces
a broad spectrum of human proliferative breast disease.
Implications: The reproducible establishment of repre-
sentative stages in early breast cancer progression from
the MCF10 model offers a new opportunity to analyze
critical events of carcinogenesis and progression in breast
cancer. [J Natl Cancer Inst 85:1725-1732, 1993]

 

Many human carcinomas evolve via a sequence from
benign hyperplasia through atypical hyperplasia to carcinoma
in situ and eventually to fully malignant, invasive tumors
with the potential to metastasize. In the case of colorectal
neoplasia, the well-recognized polyp-to-carcinoma sequence
is associated with a series of specific genetic alterations (7).
Although the colon cancer model has become a paradigm for
solid tumor development, definition of critical genetic events
in breast cancer has been hampered by the lengthy natural
history, architectural complexity, and relative inaccessibility
for sampling of breast cancers, particularly at the small,
early stages. In the human female breast, a spectrum of
pathologic change has been termed proliferative breast
disease. The progression of histopathologic features of
proliferative breast disease has been associated with
increased risk for the development of invasive carcinoma
(2). Women with the most severe form of proliferative breast
disease, atypical hyperplasia, have a fourfold to fivefold
increased relative risk of developing breast cancer.

A series of human mammary epithelial cell lines has been
derived at the Michigan Cancer Foundation from a woman
with fibrocystic disease. Mortal MCF10M cells senesce in

*See ‘‘Notes’’ section following *‘References.”’

ARTICLES 1725