2080257713
Rittweger, Karen L.

 

From: Andrew Browning [Andrew_Browning@chi.leoburnett.com]

Sent: Thursday, July 13, 2000 5:40 PM

To: Karen.L.Rittweger@pmusa.com

Ge: Dean_Sharp@chi.leoburnett.com; Kristen_Lydon@chi.leoburnett.com;

Cheryl.L.Smigelski@pmusa.com; Helene,Bolanos@pmusa.com; Loren.L.Kelley@pmusa.com;
Margaret.E.Codella@pmusa.cam, Mark.A.Cavone@pmusa.com; Sonya.C.Rush@pmusa.com
Subject: Marlboro Milds on the Database

Karen,
in order to add "Milds" to the survey three things will need to occur.

1. The survey template will need to be updated. | am working with the Corporate group on timing for the update but their
initial response was a relatively quick turnaround time.

2. The database will need to be updated to capture the new information. This would only take 24-48 hours to complete. In
regards to setting a default for Marlboro Mitds to Menthol. At the present time Suppliers do not handle default logic due to
data quality concerns. All defaults are dane on the database. The database however, is not able fo handie the default you
are requesting. Sf you were to default Mariboro to Milds to Menthol on the database then ail Marlboro responses would be
considered Menthol (i.e. the database can not handle combination defaults). This is a change that is being investigated for

Monarch. 04 andy defau ag arlbare Miikks € rs Sornbora Now wibtsa tet as
thir fe CBA

3. The data entry suppliers would need to update their programs to allow for the row talne on the’tar level question. | have
spoken with Fulfilment about timing, and due to significant programming requests and issues already on the priority list,
they would prefer to wait until mid-August to bring this issue up to the Suppliers. Thus, we would not recommend changing
the survey until after this point in time.

In regards to your second question concerning the Regular Brand Question. The suppliers are currently set up to capture
any extra information given in the Regular Brand quesiion that pertains to questions 2-5 on the current survey. That is, if
only the Regular Brand question is asked and an Adult Smoker answers Marlboro Lights, then the data entry supplier
captures Marlboro for the brand and populates Lights for the Tar Level. If we split out Lights and Milds then a response of
Marlboro Milds to the Regular Brand Question would be captured as Mariboro for the brand,and Milds for the Tar Level.

{n the short term, we could request that a response of Milds be captured as a medium. Thig would be a training issue for
the suppliers versus a programming/database issue.

; ; & Bi5d Axo
Piease tet me know if you have any questions. orate ab Ant.
Thanks, / eye? a

Andy (
312-220-5514

Scot — 5 qntaheano