4/9/23
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris, reserv.

09113197

A HEARING AND AN ECHO

Oregonian (PO) - WEDNESDAY, April 23, 1997

By: DAVID SARASOHN - of The Oregonian staff
Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: B10

MEMO:
TYPE: Column

TEXT:

Three years after tobacco execs faced House questions, last week brought
news of some expensive answers Even for a congressional hearing, it was a
strange afternoon. Anti- tobacco posters were mounted in the House
Commerce Committee room, while the chief executives of the seven major
tobacco companies, sitting in a row, were cach asked the same questions.

The huge Rayburn House Office Building hearing room was as tightly
packed as a Camel. For six hours, Reps. Henry Waxman of California, Mike
Synar of Oklahoma and Ron Wyden of Oregon kept asking the cigarette
sultans just how dangerous and addictive they thought their product was.

In response, the executives affirmed solemnly that cigarettes were about
as addictive as Twinkies, that they never calculated the addictive
properties of nicotine, and that they were heartily against teen-age
smoking. That afternoon -- and that night, on ABC's *‘Nightline" -- they
looked like they were being kicked by the Marlboro Man's horse.

Just a few months later, it looked like they had the last laugh -- or
maybe the Jast cough. Republicans had taken over Congress. The Commerce
Committee's tobacco position was being set not by Waxman and Wyden , but
by Chairman Thomas L. Bliley of Richmond, Va., the House's largest
collector of tobacco money. (Waxman and Wyden were in fact being sued
by a tobacco company, charging they had received stolen information.)
Throughout 1996, Philip Morris and RJR Nabisco spread political money
around like fertilizer on a bright-leaf field.

But suddenly, the wheels have come off the tobacco tractor. In
American politics, Big Tobacco has fallen faster and further than
anything since Dick Morris.

Last week, after cigarette companies started losing the first
liability suits to smokers -- or rather, to smokers" survivors -- and faced
huge suits from 23 state atlomeys general for Medicaid costs, word leaked
out that they were proposing a broad settlement. In secret talks in
Washington, Chicago and Tyson's Comer, Va., the companies sought legal
immunity with a 30-year, $300 billion compensation fund, more money into
anti-teen smoking campaigns, and submitting to some regulation by the Food
and Drug Administration -- a red flag in 1994,

The last time a deal like this was negotiated in Virginia, Grant let Lee
keep the horses,

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2117

 

6/80 PPrLES