action. The president has chosen a press conference instead of a
negotiating conference. He has chosen a process that reaches his goal later
rather than sooner.”

In Oregon, Democratic Rep. Peter DeFazio said legislative restrictions
on the sale of tobacco to minors would be difficult to get through
Blilcy's committee.

Josh Kardon, chief of staff for Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., said Wyden
thought the best option available to the president was to sit down with the
tobacco companies and hammer out a legally enforceable agreement on what
steps should be taken to curb teen smoking,

“Congressman Wyden has approached House Republican leaders about the
problems of teen smoking," Kardon said, ‘And found little interest in
pursuing a solution through legislation.”

Two weeks ago Wyden proposed policy changes that included stricter
enforcement of laws against selling tobacco products to minors.

Stephen Daniels-Brown, communications director for Rep. Linda Smith,
R-Wash., said Smith would back the president's proposed regulations.

Clinton declared tobacco a highly addictive and harmful drug. He said
adults can make their own decisions over whether to use it since it is a
legal product, but that government has a duty to protect vulnerable young
people from it.

Tf youth smoking has not been cut 50 percent below its 1993 level in
five years, ‘additional measures will be taken," according to the FDA.

“We all know that children are especially susceptible to the deadly
temptation of tobacco and its skillful marketing,” Clinton said at a
midday news conference in the White House East Room. “Today and every day
this year, 3,000 young people will begin to smoke; 1,000 of them ultimately
will die of cancer, emphysema, heart disease and other diseases caused by
smoking. ...

“The evidence is overwhelming, and the threat is immediate," Clinton
said, citing studies showing that one-third more eighth-graders and
onc-fourth more tenth-graders are smoking today than four years ago. “We
need to act, and we must act now."

Asked why he did not push to ban cigarettes for everyone instead of
targcting his efforts on young people alone, Clinton said that would be
wrong because it is legal for adults to smoke, but that laws in all 50
states outlaw smoking by young people. Trying to outlaw smoking by adults,
he said, “would be ineffective as Prohibition was.”

CAPTION: PHOTO
Color photo -- BILL CLINTON

Graphic -- Text -- THE PROPOSAL - Highlights of President Clinton's plan to
reduce smoking by children and teen-agers by 50 percent.

zz60 vrles

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2160