419/194
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07660494

HOW THEY ENVISION HEALTH CARE REFORM

Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, June 9, 1994

By: ROSE ELLEN O'CONNOR, RENE EJSENBART - of The Oregonian staff
Edition: FOURTH Section: GRAPHICS Page: A04

MEMO:
TYPE: Column National List Oregon Washington
COLUMN: News Focus

TEXT:
REP. RON WYDEN , DEM.

He serves on the Health Subcommittee of House Commerce, onc of three
House panels oversecing health reform. The committee has been deadlocked
over health care but Wyden believes it may still eke out a compromise.
Here's how Wyden broadly envisions a viable compromise:

What's covered: A full range of essential health services focusing on
prevention and medically effective procedures that increase quality of
life.

Who's covered: Comprehensive coverage for all U.S citizens and legal
residents by a specified date, at the latest 2000. Coverage begins
expanding for the uninsured upon enactment,

Who pays: Employers, individuals and government share responsibility for
financing; details being negotiated with other members. Reforms expected to
make health coverage more affordable for small businesses. Employers will
be required to provide insurance only if timetable for reaching universal
coverage is not met. Smokers pay $2-per-pack tax on cigarettes , which
helps pay for subsidies for the poor.

How it works: Individuals choose their own coverage, whether from
traditional insurance companies or networks of providers or some
combination. All health plans must meet national standards set out by
Congress. The plans collect premiums and provide services or reimburse
others who provide the services.

How it controls costs: Networks of doctors and other health care
providers encouraged to form partnerships with insurance companics. States
may limit how much premiums may rise, and plans whose costs rise more
quickly may face sanctions, including limits on enrollment, All plans must
provide standard benefits and compete on basis of price, service and
quality. Plans encouraged to give discounts for good health habits. Small
businesses may form purchasing coops. Drug companies required to bid for
the business of medicare and other large providers.

Oregon plan: If Oregon continues to guarantee the same basic benefits,
it can procecd with plan.

OS60 PPrLEeSs

RJROO00000141017986
70053 2186