419/102
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c} 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07637052

WYDEN TO GET SUBPOENA FROM TOBACCO COMPANY
Oregonian (PO) - TUESDAY, May 17, 1994

By: From staff and wire reports

Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A07

MEMO:
TYPE: Study Report

TEXT.

WYDEN WASHINGTON - Summary: Brown & Williamson secks the originals of
documents cited in charges that the industry was reckless with Americans’

health

A tobacco company won court permission Monday to subpoena Oregon Rep.
Ron Wyden , another member of Congress and reporters in its defense
against charges that cigaretle makers conspired against Americans’
health.

At issue are internal documents indicating that executives at Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp. knew 30 years ago that smoking was dangerous and
nicotine was addictive and that they developed but shelved a safer
cigarette .

The documents, leaked to the news media, are primarily memos in which
executives discussed whether to release some of their studies or withhold
them to protect business interests.

Some portray soul-searching by company officials on how to proceed. But
a lengthy and bluntly worded memo written in 1963 by Addison Yeaman, then
the corporation's general counsel, said: ~*We are, then, in the business of
selling nicotine, an addictive drug."

The memo added that cigaretles helped ease stress and prevent weight
gain but also caused or predisposed smokers to lung cancer, contributed to
heart disease and “may well be truly causative in emphysema etc., etc."

Brown & Williamson says the documents were stolen by a disgruntled
former employee who is trying to sabotage the Louisville, Ky., company and
that they have been taken out of context.

The company contends that Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., possesses the
originals of the stolen documents and that he won't let the company see
them so it can decide whether to respond to growing press reports about
them.

- Judge issues order

On Monday, Circuit Judge Thomas Wine in Jefferson County, Ky., ordered
Waxman, fellow smoking opponent Wyden , D-Ore., and reporters possessing

2960 brlEes

RJROO000001 41017986
70053 2200