4/9/72
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08131214

WATERWATER PROSECUTOR TAKES ON TOBACCO SUIT
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, May 11, 1995

By: ROSE ELLEN O'CONNOR - of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A07

TEXT:
Summary: Reps. Ron Wyden and Henry Waxman, being sued by Brown &
Williamson, face noted Republican lawyer Kenneth Starr

Whitewater special prosecutor Kenneth W. Starr is taking time off from
his investigation of the Clinton White House to represent a tobacco
WYDEN company suing Oregon Rep. Ron Wyden and another Capitol Hill foe of smoking.

Starr will appear in a federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., on
Thursday for Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co., which wants to subpoena
documents from Wyden and Rep, Henry Waxman of California, both Democrats.

Starr, a well-known Republican, had defused some criticism of his
appointment last summer by hiring former Watergate prosecutor Samucl Dash,
a Democrat. But Starr's decision to take on two anti-smoking Democrats in a
civil suit “tends to reinflame that old sore point,” says a Georgetown
University law professor, Paul F, Rothstein.

“Ken is a constitutional lawyer, and this is an important
constitutional case," responds Jay Lefkowitz, a lawyer in Starr's firm.
“T don't see any issue at all."

Meanwhile, the buzz on Capito} Hill is that the Democrats are nervous
about how vigorous a defense Waxman and Wyden will get from the new House
counsel appointed this year by Republican Speaker Newt Gingrich. Gingrich
has received $5,000 in the past two years -- more than any other House
member -- from Brown & Williamson's political action committee.

Capitol Hill Republicans were generally annoyed by the high-profile
hearings the two Democrats led after they were slipped embarrassing Brown &
Williamson internal memos. Shortly after taking control of the House, the
Republicans announced that hearings into what the tobacco industry knew
about smoking and addiction would be discontinued.

“We were assured that Ron will receive the same high quality
representation that he received last year,” Josh Kardon, Wyden 's
spokesman says. “Is there some nagging doubt, heading into this new round? Sure there is."

Responds House Counsel Cheryl Lau, a Republican activist and former
Nevada sceretary of state: “I take my responsibilities very, very
seriously. The changeover does not factor in.”

CAPTION: PHOTO
Photo - Ron Wyden
Copyright (c) 1995, The Oregonian Publishing Company

6260 vrles

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2167