4/9/118

DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian

(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

07604368

TOBACCO COMPANIES LIST 599 SECRET INGREDIENTS
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, April 14, 1994

By: LAURAN NEERGAARD - The Associated Press

Edition: FIRST Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A06

WASHINGTON - Summary: The information comes the day before Congress holds a
hearing on additives and if nicotine levels are manipulated

The nation’s tobacco companies, under intense pressure from Congress,
on Wednesday released a top-secret list of 599 chemicals they add to cigarettes .

The government, unsure whether the public unveiling released the
companics from a federal law prohibiting discussion of the list, would not
confirm whether the additives were the same as those reported to the
Department of Health and Human Services.

Officials with R.J. Reynolds tobacco company said the list contained
every ingredient the six major tobacco companies are required to report to HHS.

The release comes one day before a congressional hearing over what
companies put in cigarettes and whether they manipulate the levels of
nicotine. The Food and Drug Administration is considering whether to
regulate nicotine as a drug. But Congress has complained that the chemicals
added to cigarettes -- and kept secret by law -- could be toxic.

A radio network reported last week that 13 of the chemicals are so toxic
they're not allowed in food. But the list shows that the nation's six
largest tobacco companies add only eight of the 13 to their cigarettes .

“We've been misunderstood, misrepresented, and we want the American
public to know there is not any misrepresentation,” said Dr. Robert Suber,
a toxicologist for the company.

But Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., said the release of a list of ingredients,
without the amounts added, doesn't provide enough information to say
whether the chemicals harm people,

“They knew they could not sustain this level of secrecy," said Wyden
. who was to introduce legislation forcing the companies to release the ingredients.

“We really don't know the health effects of smoking a cigarette with
a very specific quantity of chemicals added in a specific combination,” he added.

Among the chemicals on the list are flavorings said to be found
naturally in everything from coffee to kiwis and grapefruit juice. Also
included is tobacco extract that does include some nicotine. FDA has said
that if nicotine is added, that could justify regulation of the products.

The list also includes an insecticide and ammonia, both of which
Reynolds says are approved to be in foods. FDA didn't comment on the
insecticide, called methaprene. Some ammonia salis are found in food.

RJR0000000141017986
FOO53 2218

 

0g60 Prles