49/119
DIALOG(R)Filc 704.(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07601005

SMOKERS SUCCESSFULLY KEPT IN DARK
Oregonian (PO) - MONDAY, April 11, 1994

By: JACK ANDERSON and MICHAEL BINSTEIN
Edition: FOURTH Section: FORUM Page: B07
Word Count: 797

MEMO:
TYPE: Column

TEXT:

Public health officials and members of Congress have accomplished something
that the CIA seems unable to handle: Keeping secret information out of
enemy hands. In this case, the enemy is the American consumer, and the
secret is a recipe for America’s most deadly product -- cigarettes . The
cloak-and-dagger secrecy surrounding the official list of ingredients in
cigarettes rivals anything the CIA has in its vaults. The 700-item list

is not available to the public and has been seen by only a handful of
people outside the tobacco industry. If a member of Congress wants access
to the three-ring black binder containing the list, the security
precautions can take months to wade through. To release it publicly would
constitute a crime, and would likely land the perpetrator in prison. Even
more incredible, this conspiracy of silence is the direct result of a law
designed to increase consumer awareness.

This is all a big camouflage by an industry that loves to say it’s for
free choice, and then works its head off to try to keep the public from
getting information that would allow it to make a more informed choice,"
says Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., a leader in the escalating congressional war
against tobacco . “I think the arguments in this law about trade secrets
is bogus." Wyden is introducing legislation that would make the contents
of the list public information.

The origins of the list stem from a decade-old law -- the Comprehensive
Smoking Education Act of 1984 -- that was written in part to “provide a
new strategy for making Americans more aware of any adverse health effects
of smoking.”

As part of the law, many members of Congress wanted to compel the
cigarette companies to make their ingredients public -- the way makers of
food products have been required to do for years.

The cigarette companies balked, at making this information available
fo the general public, however, so a deal was struck: The six largest
cigarette manufacturers would submit a list of their ingredients each
year to the Washington, D.C., Jaw firm of Covington and Burling, which
represents the tobacco industry.

The firm would then combine the six lists into one “master list,”
which would be made available to the Office of Smoking and Health, a
division of the Department of Health and Human Services. Copies would also

RJRO0000001 41017986
7O053 2220