4/9/61
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08289052

A SENATE SPECIAL WYDEN, DEFAZIO FIND A LOT
Oregonian (PO) - MONDAY, October 16, 1995

By: JEFF MAPES - of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: LOCAL STORIES Page: A01

MEMO:
U.S. SENATE CAMPAIGN
TYPE: Biography Frofile Oregon List National

TEXT:
Summary: Wyden , DeFazio find a lot to disagree about as they seek the
Democratic nomination

Right from the start, Democratic Reps. Ron Wyden and Peter DeFazio of
Oregon have seemed to find ways to disagree with each other.

Shorily after DeFazio entered the U.S. House in 1987, for example, the
two faced a bill to ban smoking on airline flights of two hours or less.
You might think it would be an easy “yes” vote for the two liberal
Democrats because both are nonsmokers who are critical of the tobacco
industry.

Nevertheless, only Wyden voted for the bill. DeFazio voted against it
after he had fought unsuccessfully in committee to achieve a complete
airline smoking ban.

DeFazio said the no-smoking rule on short flights was just a “sop to
the cigarette industry and to the people addicted to cigarettes ” that
would make it harder to get a total ban. He didn't want anything to do with
what he saw as a weak compromise.

Wyden disagreed. “If you can protect people's health now while you
work for larger, more significant gains, you ought to do it," he said with
a shrug. As it happened, Congress in 1990 expanded the ban to flights of up
to six hours.

That was only the beginning. Wyden and DeFazio have found themselves
disagreeing on such divergent issues as trade, gun control and the
balanced-budget amendment.

Now, of course, they are fighting over who will become their party's
nominee in the race to replace Bob Packwood in the U.S. Senate. Democratic
voters can't say they don't have a choice in this primary.

To be sure, DeFazio and Wyden have many similarities, Both have
largely opposed the Republican budget and tax cuts in this session of
Congress and have good voting records with such Democratic mainstays as the
environmental movement and organized labor.

But the two couldn't be more different in their personalitics and in

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2151

 

€160 Pprles