copies of the documents to let the company view them.

Brown & Williamson spokesman Tom Fitzgerald said subpoenas based on the
court order would reach Waxman and others by noon Tuesday.

Waxman aides were consulting with lawyers about the court order and had
ho immediate comment,

A Wyden aide said the congressman had not received the subpocna and so
could not comment.

“Congressman Wyden isn't likely to be intimidated by the legal might
of the tobacco industry," said chief of staff Josh Kardon. “My
assumption is that he'll continue to attempt to establish what the tobacco
company knew and when they knew it.”

Waxman, whose House Energy and Commerce health subcommittee has
spearheaded recent attacks on the tobacco industry, possesses boxes of
industry documents indicating what the companies knew about their products
and when.

During a hearing last month, he ordered the nation’s seven largest
tobacco companies to turn over all studies about cigarette safety and
addictivencss they had ever done.

Also on Monday, Brown & Williamson released the actual 1962 studies on
which the memos are based, contending that they don't reach definitive
conclusions -- and therefore company decisions not to release them at the
lime were appropriate.

The studies, conducted by the Batelle Memorial Institute in Geneva,
looked at whether nicotine relieves stress, aids weight loss and acts as a
tranquilizer.

The studies concluded that nicotine docs have some effect on stress and
helps affect obesity. But the chemical does not act the way tranquilizers
do in affecting brain chemistry, the studies said. They urged further
investigation into just how nicotine reacts in the body, particularly how
it affects certain brain and blood chemicals.

Results of additional studies on rats were confusing and *‘offer no
conclusive evidence for any particular mechanism involved in tolerance to
nicotine, nor do they indicate a lead to the phenomenon of addiction," the
papers said.

Why the company's lead attorney would come to a differing conclusion
from these reporis was unclear, and the papers didn't address the issues of
nicotine-caused disease in Yeaman's memo.

CAPTION;
PHOTO

Photo of Ron Wyden

Copyright © 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

€960 rrles

RJR0000000141017986