4/9/58
DIALOG(R)File 704;(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Orcgonian. All rts. reserv.

08306228

NADER BLASTS WYDEN, ACCUSES HIM OF SELLING OUT
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, November 2, 1995

By: SCOTT SONNER - The Associated Press

Edition: SUNRISE Section: WIRE STORIES Page: B04

Word Count: 533

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: The consumer advocate says the Oregon congressman has
been siding increasingly with corporate intcrests

Consumer advocate Ralph Nader has turned on Oregon Rep. Ron Wyden , a
former ally whom Nader now portrays as a moderate Republican running for
the Senate under the Democratic banner.

Nader said Wyden started out as a hero working on behalf of the
elderly but that over the past two years he has witnessed the *‘mutation of
a formerly liberal consumer advocate" as Wyden becomes more willing to
compromise on key issues.

His votes in recent years have gotten worse and worse. He's become one of
(Republican Housc Speaker) Newt Gingrich’s favored Democrats,” Nader said
Wednesday.

“He's got a propaganda machine second to none. He is increasingly
siding with corporate interests, caving in on his consumer interests when
push comes to shove.”

Nader's comments could pose a problem for Wyden , who has listed his
role as a leading consumer advocate as one of his key legislative
accomplishments in contrasting his record with that of his Democratic
opponent, Rep. Peter DeFazio,

Wyden ‘s campaign responded by releasing letters from other consumer
leaders, including former Ohio Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, defending the Oregon
congressman.

Nader previously has been loudly critical of Wyden for supporting the
North American Free Trade Agreement and the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade. Nader opposes both, along with DeFazio and most labor unions.

But this week the founder of several public-interest and consumer-rights
groups renewed his assault on the seven-tcrm congressman. He wrote a harsh
letter to Wyden and sent copies to Oregon media, accusing Wyden of
selling out to corporate interests, including tobacco , communications and
drug companies.

Nader said DeFazio would make a better senator, but said he doesn't
endorse politicians and denied he was working in concert with DeFazio's
campaign to discredit Wyden .

L160 PLES

RJRO0000001 41017986
70853 2149