4/9/25
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

09082336

TOBACCO COMPANIES FAR FROM DEFEATED

Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, March 23, 1997

By: SHANKAR VEDANTAM and R.A, ZALDIVAR - Knight-Ridder News Service
Edition: FIRST Section: WIRE STORIES Page: AO1

TEXT;

WASHINGTON - Summary: The industry remains highly profitable and there's no
indication producers will cave in on any front: legal, political or public

relations

A cigarette manufacturer's extraordinary confession last week of
tobacco 's dangers could set the stage for a final assault on smoking.

But don't count the tobacco companies out yet.
As the Liggett Group confirms what most Americans already believed, smoking
is actually rising among teens. The Marlboro Man is riding his way to
record profits. The industry still has lots of friends in Congress. And
tens of millions of Americans still are addicted.

All this at a time when government scratiny of the tobacco industry
has never been harsher, when dozens of states are suing the tobacco
industry for causing diseases, and public sentiment against smokers
sometimes verges on hysteria.

Friday, the dust began to clear over Liggett's decision to settle
lawsuits by 22 states in exchange for admitting the tobacco industry
deliberately recruited children to buy their deadly product.

And the experts began to ponder what it really meant.

“People in the tobacco industry are starting to say they are not
going to defend the indefensible any longer,” said Sen. Ron Wyden ,
D-Ore., a tobacco foe. “Whenever the issue is tobacco and public
policy, whenever the issue is children and health, (the Liggett settlement)
is going to be discussed."

State lawsuils -- and regulations -- will likely be helped, the experts
say, as will anti-tobacco sentiments in Congress. But the Food and Drug
Administration's efforts to regulate tobacco will be helped marginally, if at all.

Lawsuits by individual smokers probably won't be helped. Wall Street is
unsure of the impact.

Perhaps the area of least immediate impact is the one of greatest
concern: on teen-agers’ decisions to quit smoking -- or to start.

“I don't think most young people, smokers or nonsmokers, will care that
much one way or another about this settlement," said the Rev. Jesse Brown,
a prominent tobacco -control activist in the black community in
Philadelphia.

9880 prles

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2124