4/8
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv,

09175015

US. CIGARETTE -MAKERS FACE FEW LIMITS ON MARKETING TOBACCO IN OTHER
COUNTRIES

Oregonian (PO) - Tuesday, June 24, 1997

By: GWEN ACKERMAN The Associated Press

Edition: SUNRISE Section: NATIONAL Page: A08

Word Count: 573

MEMO:

TYPE: Column National Feature: Turning Point for Tobacco Ads
COLUMN: News Focus

i

N

TEXT:

JERUSALEM -- - In most of the world, American cigarettes are viewed more
as a status symbol than a health risk. Millions of people abroad light up
freely al work, in restaurants and even in hospitals. Tobacco companies
advertise on television and sponsor smoking contests.

After last week's proposed tobacco settlement, cigarette sales are
expecied to shrink further in the United States, and manufacturers are
expected to seek an even bigger market abroad.

Anti- tobacco groups in 19 nations, from Australia to Thailand, wrote
to the negotiators and Congress last week, urging international limits on
U.S. tobacco manufacturers,

At least one lawmaker is listening.

“I'm going to fight very, very hard to make sure that these
multinational tobacco companies don't target kids in Bangladesh and
Bangkok in order to pay Medicaid bills in Bend, Oregon, and Bangor,
Maine,” Sen, Ron Wyden , D-Ore., said on ABC's “Good Morming America."

Anti-smoking activists outside the United States have allies among the
lawyers who led the fight against U.S. tobacco companies.

Lawyers from Israel and European Union nations met in Brusscls this
month for a strategy session about suing tobacco companies. They got
pointers from many of the players in the U.S. litigation, including Jim
Tierney, a former attorney general from Maine who coordinated the state
lawsuits.

“We won't need to start all over again,” said Amos Hausner of the
israeli anti-smoking campaign. “The mere fact that they admitted liability
is a strong basis for our cause of action."

Israel's Health Ministry is about two months away from filing suit
against Isracli and foreign tobacco companies for $8 billion in damages,
with proceeds to be used to treat sick smokers, Hausner said.

1480 PrLES

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2109