4/9/1117
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

07605069

INDUSTRY EXECUTIVES IN ESSENCE MAINTAIN CIGARETTES HARMLESS
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, April 15, 1994

By: From wire reports

Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A13

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: The tobacco industry's top brass testifies before a
congressional subcommittee and encounters doubt and outright hostility

Tn an often hostile exchange with congressional questioners Thursday,
top tobacco company executives emphatically denied that they raise
nicotine levels in cigarettes , insisted that nicotine was not addictive
and said they remain unconvinced that cigarette smoking causes lung
cancer, emphysema, heart discase and other life-threatening ailments.

“We have looked at the data... (and) it does not convince me that
smoking causes death,” said Andrew H. Tisch, chairman and chief executive
officer of the Lorillard Tobacco Co.

But Rep. Henry A. Waxman, D-Calif., chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce subcommittee on health, berated the executives for their failure

to acknowledge what medical experts have scientifically documented for many
years: that cigaretles are addictive, and that they kill more than

400,000 Americans annually.

“That is an astounding, almost incomprehensible statistic," Waxman
said. “Imagine our nation’s outrage if two fully loaded jumbo jets crashed
each day, killing all aboard. Yet, that's the same number of Americans that

cigarettes kill every 24 hours."

The seven tobacco executives, appearing together before Congress for
the first time, did so largely to respond lo growing reports that the
industry manipulates the level of nicotine in cigarettes to maintain
smokers’ addictions.

Little new information emerged, and the hearing was marked by
considerable hostility on both sides. At the outset, Rep. Ron Wyden ,
D-Ore., called tobacco advertising an effort “to try to hook my kids"
on smoking, “I hope today," he told the executives, “that you will tell
us how you all can live with such a killing record on your consciences.”

- Executives cut off

Executives attempting to answer questions were often cul off by Wyden ,
Waxman and Rep. Mike Synar, D-Okla., in midsentence with demands for simple
yes" or “no.”

“I am somewhat appalled by the conduct of this hearing," Edward A.
Horrigan Jr., CEO of the Liggett Group, said at one point.

One of the few tobacco -friendly lawmakers on the panel Thursday, Rep.

RJRO0000001 41017986

70053 2216

8260 Prles