both of his runs for the Senate, Smith lost to Wyden in the special
election, but later won the seat of Hatfield, who retired.

Wyden has traveled the state extensively since his election to the
Senate, making good on a promise to meet with constituents in all of
Oregon's 36 counties.

“T think it's more important than ever before, with folks frustrated
and skeptical of government, to be accessible," Wyden said. “So more
than anything, what we've tried to do is follow through.”

Tt remains 10 be seen whether Wyden 's new constituents will appreciate
the attention he has paid them.

To mount his re-election campaign, Wyden will need lots of cash. But
he has yet to develop a statewide network of big contributors, in part
because his House seat was so safely Democratic.

Wyden relied heavily on out-of-state donors to finance his $3.4
million campaign against Smith, according to Federal Election Commission
records. Among Wyden ‘s contributors are New York business executives and
Hollywood tycoons, including director Steven Spielberg, who gave $1,000.

After his election in January 1996, Wyden spent the rest of the year
paying off his campaign debts, But there’s no time to relax now. Observers
think Wyden will need $1 million in the bank by the end of 1997. To get
there, he'll need to collect an average of nearly $4,000 every working day.

“You want to have as much money in the bank as possible,” Hibbitts
said. “It does dissuade challengers."

- Rx for Medicare

Medicare might be Wyden 's best shot at making a name for himself in
the Senate and on the court of national politics.

As an organizer of the Oregon Gray Panthers in the 1970s, Wyden
learned the program's importance to seniors. He has studied Medicare issues
throughout his 16-year career in Washington.

The problem is that Medicare, the federal health insurance program for
the elderly, is running out of money. Its cost to taxpayers is expected to
soar as the baby boom generation reaches retirement age in the next
century.

During the 1996 campaign, neither party was willing to put forth a plan
to rein in spending growth. Both feared alienating the 37 million senior
citizens who benefit from Medicare.

But last month, Wyden jumped into the debate with a bill that would
trim projected Medicare spending growth by $100 billion in five years. The
bill would create incentives for seniors to iry managed-care programs, and
it would establish new consumer safeguards.

Wyden frames his work in historical terms.

RJROO000001 41017986

70053 2121

e880 pries