standstill. This is one of the issues of the 21st century,” he said.
But he sometimes is described as a publicity hound who likes to
grandstand.

For example, in April seven tobacco company executives appeared at the
first of a series of congressional hearings examining the addictive
properties of nicotine. Wyden introduced a 7-ycar-old boy, who told the
executives how smoking aggravates his asthma and keeps him away from some
public places.

“Tt was an emotional ploy that was in questionable tastc," said
Brennan Dawson, spokeswoman for the Tobacco Institute, the industry's
Capitol Hill lobbyist. “It wasn't a search for insight or information."

“It turned more into an inquisition than a congressional hearing,”
said Joe Helewicz, Brown & Williamson's vice president for corporate
communications.

Wyden , who along with subcommittee chairman Rep. Henry A. Waxman,
D-Calif, and Michael L. Synar, D-Okla., has been one of the tobacco
industry's major tormentors, has drawn criticism from Republican members.

““T thought he was out to lunch a little bit,” said Rep. J. Alex
McMillan, R-N.C., who represents tobacco country but who also, at times,
has been a critic of the industry. “He can state his position very shrilly
al times.”

In 1989, Wyden took a lot of ribbing for appearing on **Geraldo” to
talk about scams in cosmetic surgery. Gwenn Baldwin, then a Wyden aide,
was aghast when she learned of the appearance, seeing “Geraldo” as too
frivolous for a member of Congress. But she later figured that the show
probably reached the very people most likely to be victimized by such
scams.

“Those things took a lot of guts." said Baldwin, now a press aide to
Gov. Barbara Roberts. “They're easy to laugh at. But it's a
multibillion-dollar industry that's hurting peopte.”

Five years after the Geraldo appearance, Wyden is still pushing for
new regulations for some medical procedures, including plastic surgery.

Wyden was elected to the House in 1980, a tender 31, skinny, eager and
a sometimes awkward young fellow. He was a classic civic activist, learning
health issues from his work as legal adviser to the seniors advocacy group,
Oregon Gray Panthers, which he helped establish in 1974 fresh out of law
school. His work soon brought him to the late Rep. Claude Pepper, D-Fia.,
the patron saint of issues on the aging and something of a mentor for the
young Wyden .

Today, Wyden still talks about many of the same issues that consumed
him when he first came to Congress.

260 PPrles

RJROO00000141017986
70053 2175