4/9165
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian, All rts. reserv.

08225123

CLINTON: BLOWING SMOKE

Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, August 13, 1995
Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: C02
Word Count: 514

MEMO:
TYPE; Editorial

TEXT:
Summary: The best allack against teen smoking should focus on results, not gestures

It's hard to fault President Clinton for launching an aggressive,
national call to arms against tecn smoking.

The problem of tcen smoking cries out for more attention. Smokers who
begin the habit when they are teen-agers have the hardest time giving it up
later. An estimated 3,000 American kids take up smoking each day.

Clinton's plan to regulate the sale and promotion of cigarettes through
the federal Food and Drug Administration represents a grand gesture but not
grand policy.

Federal tobacco regulation is most valuable as a threat, a lever by
which to force tobacco companies to crack down on use of their products
by underage smokers. The cost and delay of the sure-to-come legal and
political fight over FDA regulation won't help teens or taxpayers.

Oregon Rep. Ron Wyden had been making significant progress toward a
legally binding, cooperative plan under which the tobacco industry would
fund education programs against teen smoking and refuse to provide products
to retailers who don't follow state laws on underage sales. Wyden should
keep working toward such a solution, and remind his colleagues that their
aim is for pragmatic results,

Many of Clinton's specific proposals need sharpening:

- His plan to force the industry to fund a $150 million annual public
education campaign against teen smoking will face a legal challenge. A
voluntary agreement with the industry to spend a far higher amount would be
better.

- His pledge to make the federal government take the lead in policing
underage tobacco sales goes overboard. The federal government should
prohibit mail-order sales and free samples, but the states should crack
down on vending machines and retailers who sell to underage customers.

The Wyden plan, under which tobacco companics would cease supplying
vendors caught selling cigarettes to kids, had the advantage of making
the industry pay for some of that policing.

- Clinton's prohibition against brand-name but not corporate sponsorship

RJROO00000141017986
70053 2157

6L60 prles