4/9/116
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv,

07605292

INDUSTRY CHIEFS INSIST CIGARETTES ARE AS SAFE AS COFFEE
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, April 15, 1994

By: LAURAN NEERGAARD - The Associated Press

Edition: FIRST Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A09

MEMO:
TYPE: National

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: But are tobacco companies telling the truth? is the
reigning question during Thursday's congressional hearing

Cigarettes are no more addictive or druglike than the caffeine in
coffee, the chicfs of the nation’s seven largest cigarette companies told
Congress on Thursday,

“We do not do anything to hook smokers or keep them hooked,” said
James Johnston, chairman and chief executive of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
“We no more manipulate nicotine in cigarettes than coffee-makers
manipulate caffeine.”

Johnston joined the six other chief executive officers to testify before a
congressional panel about what they put in cigarettes and whether they
manipulate the amount of nicotine they contain.

That's key to a decision by the Food and Drug Admmistration on whether
to regulate cigarettes . If the FDA determines thal companies do
manipulate nicotine, it could label the chemical a drug and bring tobacco
products under the agency's control.

But the question at Thursday's hearing is somewhat broader: Are
cigarette companics telling Congress the truth?

Rep. Henry Waxman, D-Calif., chairman of the House energy and commerce
health subcommittee, on Wednesday charged that one company executive wrote
in 1981 that the industry specially blends tobacco to maintain high
nicotine levels in brands that have low tar.

Alexander Spears, chicf opcrating officer of Lorillard Tobacco Co.,
told Congress last month that companies don't do anything especially to
maintain levels and that nicotine falls whenever tar falls.

“Once again, tobacco industry representatives have not only withheld
information, but they have misrepresented the truth,” Waxman said.

Spears issued a statement denying that he had contradicted himself,
calling Waxman's statements “a serious error in reasoning.” He said the
1981 report and his testimony were not inconsistent, since manufacturers
blend tobacco for such reasons as “taste acceptance” and “brand
distinction.”

RJR00000001 41017986
70053 2213

SL60 prles