4/9184
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07675163

BAD DAY IN CONGRESS FOR TOBACCO EXECUTIVES
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, June 24, 1994

By: ROSE ELLEN O'CONNOR - of the Oregonian Staff
Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: AO1

Word Count: 918

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: The Justice Department will investigate whether
cigaretle makers lied to Congress about nicotine

AS consumers demanded lower-tar cigarettes in the late 1970s, the
tobacco industry searched for ways to maintain the drug-like effect of
nicotine, according to a corporate document unveiled Thursday by Oregon

Rep. Ron Wyden .

It was a bad day in Washington for tobacco companies. As a tobacco
company's lop executive was pilloried during a relentless five hours of
questioning on Capitol Hill, Attorney General Janet Reno announced that, at
the request of several House members, the Justice Department would look
into whether tobacco companies have lied to Congress or federal
regulators.

Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.'s top executive, Thomas E. Sandefur Jr.,
denied Thursday that his company withheld information about its earch into
nicotine. During testimony before a House health subcommittee, Sandefur
complained that David Kessler, the head of the Food and Drug
Administration, had attacked his company with “misleading and grossly
unfair" accusations.

Kessler told the subcommittee Tuesday that Brown & Williamson had tried
to hide earlier development of a secret high-nicotine tobacco .

On Thursday, Sandefur insisted that nicotine is not addictive. He
charged that his company was being victimized by an anti-smoking furor that
“says it's OK to return to an age of McCarthyism when blacklisting and
vilification of honest, respectable people was sanctioned for the sake of
advancing political agendas."

Sandefur repeatedly said he couldn't answer questions about -- and had
never seen -- many of the documents he turned over to the subcommittee a
few weeks ago. The panel had demanded all corporate documents related to
nicotine after receiving at least some of the documents from a confidential
source.

“I can't answer that. As soon as I know, I'll let you know," Sandefur
said repeatedly throughout the hearing.

Sandefur insisted that his company adjusts the level of nicotine in
cigarettes only for taste. But a 1976 corporate study, recommended
developing a Jow-tar cigarette that would satisfy the “inner need" of

p60 prhes

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2179