Wyden says he inspires this warmth because he always keeps the average
person in mind. “Real problems, real needs, real solutions," Wyden
exclaims, chopping at the air with a hand. “The bottom line is that 1 get
results for Oregon.”

However, Wyden ‘s approach is not quite that simple. In Congress, he
sometimes draws as much attention for the issues he won't tackle as for the
ones he will.

One example is health care, the issue with which he has been most
closely identified in his years on Capito! Hill. He knows his targets. He
has shaped successful legislation to crack down on useless Medigap
insurance policies sold to the elderly, investigated shoddy medical labs
and won new laws lowering drug prices for state health programs for the
poor. Once he even went on “Geraldo” to talk about his investigatory work
into ripoff cosmetic surgery.

He has become widely respected for his knowledge of health care issues
and his energy in pursuing them. ““I think Ron is seen as one of the
handful of key health care leaders in the House," says Cathy Hurwit of
Citizen Action, a group pushing for national health care coverage.

Still, Wyden has never been a big player when it comes to the tough
issues of reforming the overall system. In 1994, for example, he refused to
endorse President Clinton's national health care bill -- but he never did
present his own vision of reform.

“He has told our coalition members for years that he is coming up with
his own plan," says Ellen Pinney of the Oregon Health Action Coalition,
“and we have yet to see that plan.”

Dr. Rick Wopat of Lebanon, who is on the national legislative committee
of the American Academy of Family Physicians, praises Wyden ‘s knowledge
and ability to get things passed. But he, too, says Wyden shies from some
tough fights.

“He picks populist causes and does well with them," Wopat says. “On
some of the things that are not as popular .., | think it's harder for him
to come out on those things."

Wyden insists he didn’t duck the national health care fight. And he
did support Democratic efforts in the Commerce Committec to craft a plan
requiring employers to help provide coverage for their workers. But even
now, Wyden tends to emphasize less controversial ways to expand coverage,
and it takes some probing to get him to acknowledge that he believes in
“every employer paying a portion of workers’ health care."

Wyden has followed the same pattern when it comes to the future of
Northwest forests.

Wyden says his biggest disappointment in Congress was its inability to
address the environmental and economic issues surrounding the public lands
in the Northwest.

Yet, his views on the balance between timber supply and environmental

RJRO0000001 41017986
7O053 2145

 

2060 vrLES