have to come up with a compromise. Packwood also has said he will not
support @ bill that has price controls or that docsn't include abortion
coverage.

SEN. MARK 0. HATFIELD, REP. He is a a co-sponsor of Rhode Island Sen,
John Chafee's health care reform bill, one of the GOP alternatives to the
president's proposal. Here's how he envisions health care:

What's covered: Specific benefits to be determined by national
commission with Congress approving on up or down vote. Generally covers
primary and preventive care, some substance abuse, severe mental illness
and prescriptions, including drugs for elderly only if they drop Medicare
for a less costly insurance plan. Family planning and abortion not
specifically included or excluded. Dental, eye and long-term care excluded,
but individuals may sct up tax-cxempt savings account to pay for long-term
or catastrophic care.

Who's covered: All U.S. citizens and legal residents must purchase
health insurance by 2005.

Who pays: Individuals pay for their own health coverage. Government
subsidies for poor phased in but only as goals for limiting growth in
Medicaid and Medicare are met. Plan envisions more businesses paying for
health care as market reforms make it more affordable.

How it works: Employers must offer, but not required to pay for, basic
health plan as defined by national commission. States provide information
on cost and quality of health plans, set up arbitration process for
disputes over coverage and designate service regions. Individuals and small
businesses within a region may form purchasing co-ops.

How it controls costs: Encourages use of more economical health plans
such as HMOs by limiting employer tax deductions to the average cost of the
least expensive plans and by taxing individuals on health benefits above
the standard package. Health plans must charge residents in a region the
same basic rate, with some flexibility allowed for differences in age; they
may not refuse coverage or charge more because of pre-existing conditions.
Limits attorneys’ fecs and awards in malpractice cases and requires use of
nonbinding arbitration.

Oregon plan: Prohibits only Canadian-style single-payer plans and thus
would allow Oregon to proceed with its health plan.

Special concern: Co-authored provision to sct aside 1 percent of
insurance premiums for medical research, which has won wide bipartisan
support and is now attached to both Republican and Democratic reform bills.

CAPTION:
PHOTO

8 Photos -- RON WYDEN -- MIKE KOPETSKI -- PETER DEFAZIO -- JOLENE
UNSOELD -- ELIZABETH FURSE -- BOB SMITH -- MARK O. HATFIELD -- BOB PACK WOOD

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2193

 

gs60 pres