419189
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07670122

SAVAGING THE HEALTH CARE ECOSYSTEM
Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, June 19, 1994

By: STEVE DUIN of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: FOURTH Section: FORUM Page: B01

MEMO:
TYPE: Column
COLUMN: Politics

TEXT:

Vagabonds, gather ‘round. Profiteers and price-gougers, listen up. It's
just about time for the Clinton administration to name the latest demon
blocking America’s access to guaranteed health care.

The nominees, please?

Or should we ask: Who's left? Who's left to take the blame for the
Clintons’ abysmal failure to organize the opening moves in their overhaul
of the system?

“They've already donc doctors,” said Chris Moir, a pediatric surgeon
at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn, “There was a lot of bad press,
primarily financial. A survey about how much the average American thought a
doctor should make. Stuff you have a hard time fighting.

“Doctors were the first demons. Then the insurance companics got hit
hard."

And the pharmaceutical houses. When the administration went on the
offensive last year, the drug industry took some of the most vicious hits.

President Clinton accused the industry of reaping unconscionable
“profits at the expense of our children" and costly childhood vaccines.
He bragged he could force drug companies to lower prices by whipping the
public into a frenzy.

The whipping, apparently, wasn't traumatic enough to retire the
demonization detail. Next up? The tobacco industry, such a legendary
scoundrel in health care circles that you have to wonder why its head
wasn't first on the block.

Congress has done most of the finger-pointing here, but does anyone
think it's just coincidence that even as the Clintons press for a 75-cent
increase in the cigarette tax, Congress is going afler the tobacco
companies with a blowtorch?

Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., does. Wyden , who demanded in April that
tobacco executives “tell us how you all can live with such a killing
record on your consciences," insists the House inquisition falls into the
“no orchestration column. I haven't been to any mectings where someone
said, “Do this one month, do this the next,’"

Sr60 prles

RJROO000001 41017986
70053 2183