“People will come back and say, where were you on Medicare reform
before this demographic tidal wave?" Wyden said. “The bill I put in is
going to have a lot of features in it that people will say helped to
modernize the program."

Even if his bill fails to pass, Wyden hopes to get key provisions
adopted as a part of the budget process. In particular, he hopes to rewrite
the federal reimbursement formula, which penalizes states such as Oregon
that have worked to make their Medicare plans more efficient.

“I think we have a good chance to get that this Congress," Wyden
said.

- Old habits

State Republican leaders acknowledge that they'll have an uphill battle
against Wyden . Their best hope might be to convince voters that Wyden
has spread himself too thin.

“His support is a mile by maybe an inch thick," said Craig Berkman, a
former state Republican party chairman. “There's a perception that he's a
hard-working guy, an ethical guy, but not very effective.”

Indeed, Wyden has taken on a huge workload. He's on five committees in
the Senate; many of his colleagues stick to three or four assignments.

Wyden insists he's not taking on too much. Rather, he views his
committce assignments as tools to accomplish goals for his constituents.

A seat on Environment and Public Works was Wyden 's entree to invite
the head of the Army Corps of Engineers to tour the Columbia River later
this month. The river, not coincidentally, must be dredged to accommodate
bigger ships.

“The challenge is 10 use your committee assignments in a disciplined
way," Wyden said.

Wyden confesses that he has a hard time keeping up with his
committees’ work schedules. But he makes time to visit the congressional
television galleries when he introduces or co-sponsors legislation.

His style contrasts sharply with that of Smith, who has been busy paying
his dues as a member of the majority party. On the morning of March 18, for
example, Smith performed the freshman chore of running Senate floor
business, while Wyden made his third TV gallery appearance of the month,

“If 1 was cunning against him,” Berkman said, “I'd want to know how
many committee meetings he's missed.”

- Change of pace
Nevertheless, Republicans might be helping Wyden 's cause. Compared

with the early days of the 104th Congress, when Republicans pushed through
the Contract With America, progress in the new Congress seems glacial.

RJRO000000141017986

POG5S 2422

7es0 bytes