““My preference," said Wyden , who in the interval has become, as in a
puff of smoke, Sen. Wyden , D-Ore., **would be to bring these executives
back and have them explain the differences between what they said then and
what's come out since."

One after the other.
Certainly CNN would be available.

This is not, of course, very likely. One of the other things that has
changed since April 1994 is the control of Congress, which has passed into
the hands of people with no interest in being mean to tobacco companies.
As the head of the U.S. Tobacco Co. (Copenhagen and Skoal smokeless
tobacco ) said after the 1994 elections, ~The company is also hopeful
that the incoming 104th Congress will place tobacco issues in a proper
perspective relative to the many other issues the new Congress will facc.”

And the companies have done more than hope. Recent reports from Common
Cause and the Center for Responsive Politics have shown a huge increase in
tobacco campaign contributions over the last year. Tobacco is now the
biggcst contributor to the Republican National Committee and Republican
congressional campaign committees, chipping in more than $2 million during
1995,

Tobacco has become a top GOP lobby, right up there with the National
Rifle Association. This allows congressional Republicans to run ona
balanced ticket: slow death and sudden death.

The committee that held the 1994 hearings is now chaired by Rep. Thomas
L. Bliley, R-Va., who shows up in the Common Cause listings as Congress’
top collector of tobacco moncy over the last decade, with a total of
$123,976. As Josh Goldstein of the Center for Responsive Politics noted
Wednesday, “If you look at the Commerce Committee, the shift of power to
the Republicans has clearly been very helpful to the tobacco companies.”

So it's not very likely that the cigarette stokers will soon be
subpoenaed back so that they can, in Congresspeak, revise and extend their
remarks. But it looks like they will have other opportunities.

As of now, five different grand juries around the country are examining
tobacco companies’ claims and liabilities. For the last nine months, the
Justice Department has been investigating whether the executives’ testimony
in 1994 leaves them open to charges of perjury. This week, a department
spokesman confirmed that the investigation was continuing.

So, although the tobacco executives may not be explaining things to
Congress in the near future, they should have the chance to speak in some
detail to a whole series of grand juries, investigators and prosecutors.

One after the other.
David Sarasohn is an associate editor of The Oregonian. He can be

telephoned at 221-8523 or reached by mail at 1320 S.W. Broadway, Portland
97201.

£680 PrLES

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2131