Moncy from tobacco industry political action committees totaled $2.8
million, of which 71 percent went to Republicans. BUSINESS The tobacco
industry remains hugely profitable, but company stocks may face some rough
going between now and the summer.

The Liggett settlement shook the stock prices of some companies, but
Salomon Brothers analyst Diana Temple said a string of court cases are
likely to have more substantial repercussions.

“We are going 10 have a rough couple of months, and then we have to
reappraise the situation,” she said.

Temple said the Liggett settlement generates a wave of negative
publicity in advance of the trials, in which states are trying to win
compensation for the health-care costs generated by smokers.

“I expected the publicity out of the trials, and instead it came from
this Liggett disclosure," Temple said.

Temple said she sees no signs that other companies will seek to settle
the court cases against them.

“Philip Morris remains a very profitable company, with growing
international operations and a very strong food business, and I don't think
the government wants to put it out of business," she said.

PUBLIC HEALTH AND OPINION
One way Thursday's settlement can affect children smoking is if the
companies end up paying huge fines in the lawsuits.

“If the tobacco companies were forced to accept financial
responsibility, it would force the price of cigarettes up, which would
reduce the level of smoking," said Stanton Glantz, referring to the
well-known theory that youth smoking is especially sensitive to the cost
of cigarettes .

Experts are divided over whether youngsters will be more likely to turn
their backs on smoking because of a tobacco company has admitted
duplicity.

Wanda Filer, Pennsylvania's physician general, said, “1 have heard all
too many kids say, “smoking isn't bad, my friends are doing it.'”
Thursday's announcement would underscore experts’ assertions that smoking
is addictive, she said.

But other experts say few people need any more convincing. Convincing
smokers to quit may need more than a recitation of its health dangers.

“The sad fact is rational knowledge ultimately has little influence on
our behavior,” said Mark Crispin Miller, a researcher at Johns Hopkins
University who has studied tobacco advertising.

“Let's not forget that it’s the very dangerousness of cigarettes that
appeals to the young," he said.

8880 prles

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2426