4/9124
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

09097095

WYDEN KEEPS 1998 IN MIND WHILE BUILDING HIS REPUTATION
Oregonian (PO) - MONDAY, April 7, 1997

By: JIM BARNETT - of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A01

Word Count: 1,780

MEMO:
TYPE: Biography Profile Local National

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: The Democratic senator is carving out a role in
Medicare reform and trying to moderate his image in rural Oregon

Growing up, Ron Wyden dreamed of playing in the National Basketball
Association. But when asked which player he admires, Wyden describes the
politician he has become -- onc who hustles to be everywhere all the time.

“Td like to be a guard, who plays good defense, who got to bring the
ball up from time to time -- but not always -- and who could probably do
some good post work to add another dimension,” Wyden said.
Wyden , 47, arrived in the Senate 14 months ago, after narrowly winning
the seat that Bob Packwood resigned. But the Portland Democrat can see time
running down on his abbreviated first term.

“Of coursc, I'm aware of 1998," Wyden said. “Nobody is going to
pretend otherwise."

Since the new Congress was sworn in three months ago, Wyden has run a
full-court press to build a record and reputation that will win him
re-election next year to a full six-year term.

In that regard, he's the same Ron Wyden who was elected eight times to
represent Oregon's 3rd House District -- constantly in motion, looking for
a quick score and a TV highlight.

But Wyden , a former House free-throw shooting champion, is growing
into his new role as a political veteran. Privately, Republicans concede
that Wyden is producing more substantive solutions, not quick hits.

The senator's recent Medicare reform bill has helped build his stature.
In arecent Budget Committee meeting, for example, Chairman Pete Domenici,
R-N.M., called on Wyden to explain the trouble with Medicare's
reimbursement formula.

Generally, he has been very impressed with the work Senator Wyden
has been doing in the whole Medicare area," said Bob Stevenson, a
spokesman for Domenici.

Republicans also say that Wyden has made himself accessible -- if not

L880 Prles

RJRO000000141017986
7OGS3 2119