smokers for nicotine.

“The importance of nicotine hardly needs to be stressed, as i115 so
widely recognized," the study said. “Inner need is characterized as
smoking to achieve psychological benefits such as to “relieve stress’ and
“to aid concentration.’ "

Wyden , who disclosed the committee's possession of the study, said it
is strong evidence that tobacco companies manipulate levels of nicotine
as a way to hook smokers, The FDA has been considering regulating tobacco
as adrug, and Wyden is a co-sponsor of legislation that would instruct
the agency to do so.

“Tt sure looks to me like you all are in the drug-making business,"
Wyden said.

- Republicans defend witness

But Republican members of the subcommittee came to Sandefur's defense,
thanking him for his candor and arguing that regulation of tobacco would
set a dangerous precedent.

“In the name of public health, should the government decide how much
milk, butter, eggs, bacon or hamburgers a person can consume?" asked
Michael Bilirakas, R-Fla. “Should people be penalized because they are
overweight . . . and refuse to exercise?”

In response to Wyden ‘s questions about Project Wheat, Sandefur denied
that the company designs high-nicotine cigarettes and said he could not
explain the documents from his corporate files.

“This is the first time I've ever heard of Project Wheat," Sandefur
told Wyden . “I can tell you we don't design our cigarettes that way.
We set a target in terms of taste characteristics we want, and that's the
way we manufacture them."

That response sparked the angriest exchange of the day. Subcommittee
Chairman Henry Waxman, D-Calif., got into a verbal wrestling match with
Sandefur's lawyer, former Attorney General Griffin Bell, who tried to speak
for his client.

“I'm saying it's hard to believe that he doesn't know about documents
that he submitted to us when he's the chief executive officer of the
corporation. He knew about this hearing. He knew the inquiry was about
nicotine. He knew that his scientists had been working for decades on this
research,” Waxman shouted into the microphone.

- 7,000 documents submitted
Bell responded angrily: “We have produced almost 7,000 documents.
That's very unreasonable to say that he should have studied all of those

documents to be prepared."

Other studics by Brown & Williamson or its parent company,

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2180

Zy60 bres