4/9156
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c} 1998 The Oregonian, All rts. reserv.

08319048

SMOKE GETS IN YOUR TOBACCO COVERAGE
Oregonian (PO) - WEDNESDAY, November 15, 1995
By: David Sarasohn - of The Oregonian staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: B06

MEMO:
TYPE: Column

TEXT:

With all the clean air laws, you hardly ever get to inhale that old
traditional autumn smell: homeowners burning their leaves. There is a rich,
smokey smell in the air this month, but the source is different: This time,
leaves are buming people.

Specifically, tobacco is burning a network -- for the second time this
year,

It's almost becoming a new tradition -- with its own particular smelt.

Sunday evening, “60 Minutes” backed off on a plan to interview, on the
air, a former Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co. executive about the
company's awareness about cigarettes and health problems. The interview
was pulled on advice of CBS' lawyers, because the ex-executive had signed
an agreement with Brown & Williamson not to talk about the company. The
company's lawyers feared that broadcasting the interview would open up CBS
to a massive lawsuit charging that CBS had “induced” the executive to
violate the agreement. .

So CBS killed the interview.

What's most impressive here is the sweep of tobacco ‘s legal reach.
Brown & Williamson didn't even have to threaten to sue; CBS imagined the
dangers on its own. And although many legal experts saw the network's legal
position as strong -- there's not much precedent for media getting
successfully sued for *“inducement" -- the company apparently worricd less
about whether it could win than about the risks and inconveniences of
getting sucd at all.

From the tobacco companies’ perspective, the situation is perfect:
Journalists now censor themselves. The companies themselves just vanish in
the smoke.

“We were dismayed," Mike Wallace of “60 Minutes" said at the end of
the program, “that the management of CBS had seen fit to give in to
perceived threats of legal action against us by a tobacco industry giant.
We've broadcast many such investigative pieces down the years and we want
to be able to continue. We lost out -- only to some degree -- on this
one."

Losing out “only to some degree” is like losing only part of your
reputation. But at least CBS has some company here.

RJR00000001 41017986
70053 2141

 

€060 trles