to the continuation of a decades-long controversy that has failed to
produce a constructive outcome for anyonc.”

Philip Morris Cos., RIR Nabisco Holdings Corp., BAT Industries PLC, the
British parent of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp., and Loews Corp.,
which owns Lorillard Tobacco Co., released the statement jointly,

Most of the money the cigarette companies would have to pay -- $10
billion upon signing the agreement, $8.5 billion a year for five years and
about $15 billion a year thereafter -- would be tax-deductible, forcing
taxpayers to in effect share in the cost of the settlement,

In exchange for their concessions, the tobacco companies won the

promise of relief from dozens of potentially ruinous lawsuits filed by
states and diseased smokers. No lawsuit filed against cigarette makers
has succeeded, although the Liggett Group, a subsidiary of the Brooke Group
Ltd., broke with the industry to negotiate its own settlement last year.
The fund would crimp industry profits for years, bul cigarcttc -makers
would be allowed to continue to sell their products without the threat of
concerted legal action against them. Cigarette company stocks rose this
week in anticipation of a deal capping the industry's liability.

The agreement faces enormous obstacles, including the opposition of
influcntial members of Congress and health groups who think that the
settlement yields too much to the industry.

Sen. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., said he opposed the settlement because it did
not limit the companies' ability to sell in foreign countries, which have
become growth markets in recent years.

“We believe that any such agreement should include provisions to
address the international scourge of worldwide tobacco sales by U.S.
manufacturers," Wyden said in a letter to President Clinton that Sens,
Richard Durbin, D-Ill, and Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, also signed.

The political process of debating and approving the deal will take
months at a minimum. It is certain to make the three months of difficult
negotiations leading to Friday's announcement appear casy.

And the proposed accord left vastly more questions than it answered. The
negotiators did not release the detailed document that was signed Friday,
only a six-page summary. Nor could the seven attorneys general who
announced the deal in a Washington hotel ballroom give assurances that the
other 33 states that have sued the industry would support it.

The outline of the agreement also left broad unanswered questions about
enforcement and legal jurisdiction, as well as whether the industry would
be able to continue to operate virtually unimpeded overseas. Even before it
was announced, one critic vowed to challenge it in court on grounds that it
would infringe the constitutional right of individuals and groups of harmed
smokers to seek damages against the industry.

President Clinton, wary of embracing a deal whose outline remained hazy,
issued a noncommittal statement late Friday.

~i80 #rles

RJRO0000001 41017986
76053 2112