4/9/22
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian, All rts, reserv.

09136230

WYDEN WARNS TOBACCO FIRMS
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, May 16, 1997

By: From wire reports

Edition: SUNRISE Section: GRAPHICS Page: A10

MEMO:
TYPE: National Column
COLUMN: Capital Diary

TEXT:

WASHINGTON -- Sen. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., pledged Thursday to ensure that any
deal to end the nation’s war on tobacco would not be financed by

“millions of kids around the world" smoking more U.S. cigarettes .

Wyden is planning to modify any deal that reaches Congress to set aside
money for international anti-smoking education and to end what he calls
government promotion of tobacco overseas.

But he might be premature: Tobacco firms indicated Thursday that they
are reluctant to resume negotiations. An observer familiar with the
industry said the companies have no reason to negotiate unless they can
limit their liability.

Cigarette -makers are offering to pay more than $300 billion and submit
to some regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in return for
protection from lawsuits, Attorneys for 29 states suing the industry call
that liability the main sticking point in the talks.

Wyden wrote to the World Health Organization that the settlement talks
are “turning a blind eye to the health effects" of U.S. tobacco
overseas. He wants any deal to forbid the U.S. Commerce Department from
helping tobacco companies break into new foreign markets, such as China.

Military says B-52 pilot can ask to resign

The Air Force said it would consider a resignation request from the
nation's first female B-52 pilot, which could stop court-martial
proceedings against Ist Lt. Kelly Flinn on adultery and other charges.

The highly publicized tial is scheduled to open Tuesday at Minot Air
Force Base, N.D.

The Air Force said no such request has been submitted, Flinn is charged
with adultery and fraternization in connection with two affairs the Air
Force says she had during the past year, one with an unmarried enlisted man
and the other with a married civilian. She also is charged with lying to
investigators and disobeying an order to stay away from the married man.

Even if Flinn made a formal request to resign, she would have no
guarantee that it would be granted, and she still might be required to
plead guilty to some charges.

RJROOC00001 41017986

POOSS 2445

1L80 vyles