scl-asides have been mostly a mystery. Brock Evans of the National Audubon
Society says he has always found Wyden ~‘very cordial and generally quite
noncommittal.”

Even Ray Wilkeson, a former Wyden aide who now works for the Oregon
Forest Industries Council, says he wasn't sure where the congressman came
down on the issue.

Wyden ‘recently released a position paper that is only slightly more
illuminating. He says he wants to appoint a ““nonpolitical committee" that
would decide how much logging to allow on public lands.

What Wyden has done through the years is focus on slices of the timber
issuc that have particular popular appeal -- and less of a political
downside.

For the Portland-area residents in his district, he has supported
legislation to ban logging in the Bull Run Watershed. For the timber
industry, he backed favorable tax provisions and fought for lower tariffs
on exports of finished lumber products from the Northwest.

“He has a tendency to try to please everybody,” says Andy Kerr of the
Oregon Natural Resources Council, ‘‘and on the forest issue, that's hard to
do." Some say he takes safe road Wyden draws criticism for taking the
safe route, partly because he is so dogged about winning publicity for
himself and also because he has been interested in higher office for so
long.

After an upset victory in the 1980 Democratic primary, Wyden quickly
became known for holding frequent news conferences on his twice-monthly
trips back to Oregon.

By 1987, Congressional Quarterly listed him as one of the five House
members most skilled at getting on local TV.

In a way, this came naturally to Wyden . He learned from his father,
Peter Wyden , a successful journalist and author, how to make his subjects
compelling to reporters.

Wyden has considered running for the Senate for years.

From the start, he has made sure his voting record is palatable
statewide -- it has only been in recent years that he has supported any
gun-contro! legislation, for example -- and he spent several months
exploring a challenge lo Packwood in 1986.

Former Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., says Wyden told him he backed away from
that race after being boxed out by the wily Packwood. “He said, “You know,
Packwood has the Jewish vote. Packwood has the business vote and Packwood
has the women's vote. So what do I get?"

it's wrong, however, to say that Wyden ducks all fights. After joining
the Commerce Committee, he quickly opposed efforts by its then-chairman,
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., to weaken the Clean Air Act to help the auto
industry.

RJRO0000000141017986

70053 2146

go60 brles