Let this run on for five or six hours, and the congressmen get credit
for having held a hard-hitting hearing.

Frequently one of the trio of congressmen will be positively rude,
cutting an industry representative off in midsentence -- not because the
reps are uncooperative but because they don't give the right answers to
such technically subtle questions as “‘Aren't you trying to addict my
kids?" and its logical follow-up, **How can you live with yourself?"

Even when new evidence is adduced -- as when, last week, the cigarette
manufacturers released the secret list of their ingredients -- no
discemible effort is made to weigh the evidence and reach conclusions
based on it, The information is all-important as long as the manufacturers
withhold it, worthless when they give it up.

Let me say clearly: 1 don't have a clue as to whether the tobacco
people are spiking their cigarettes with nicotine in order to hook more
kids. But it’s obvious that the industry will need new smokers, if only to
replace those who dic of tobacco -related illnesses. It's a bad business.

But so is an investigative process in which the answers don't matter,
only the questions -- in which the questions themselves, reiterated with
sufficient stern-faced concern for future generations, become indictments
and, at last, convictions.

How many casual watchers of the proceedings can doubt that cigarette
manufacturers are injecting their products with doses of nicotine
calibrated to addict our children? And what is the evidence for this
conclusion other than that the question keeps being asked?

It is reminiscent of the probing questions the news media keep pulling
to the Clintons regarding that timeless, boundless series of transactions
and alliances known as Whitewater. “We're only doing our jobs," say these
probers, as though the job consists not of gathering facts but only of
asking in as many guises as possible the same question which, at bottom,
is: Why don't you just confess and save us all a lot of trouble?

But journalists didn’t invent the form. Wyden , Waxman and Synar will
resent it, and serious anti-smokers will think I'm crazy, but the Capitol
Hill inquisition masquerading as legislative hearings reminds me of nothing
so much as a witch-hunting Joe McCarthy. Like McCarthy, they ask and answer
their own questions, dismiss the protestations of those who havea
different view and flourish pieces of paper which they allege prove every
charge implicit in their questions.

That the purpose of the current hearings may be a good one is not enough
to justify the technique. A witch hunt is a witch hunt -- even when good
guys do the hunting.

Copyright1994, Washington Post Writers Group

Syndicated columnist William Raspberry writes for The Washington Post.

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2206

 

g960 PrLES