But he did not disclose his support for the FDA's new rofe. That was due in part to the urging of North
Carolina politicians, whose constituency includes many tobacco workers and executives. The
politicians had implored the president not to make the proposals the focus of his remarks.

In his speech, to the Progressive National Baptist Convention, Clinton called smoking one of the greatest
threats to young people, listing it with violence, tecn pregnancy and illegal drugs. He said curbing tobacco
use among young people was ‘the cheapest, easiest, quickest thing you could ever do to change the whole
dynamic of health care in America." :

The president said he recognized the importance of tobacco to the economy of North Carolina and
other Southern states bul that recent increases in smoking among teen-agers were too pronounced and
dangerous to ignore.

“Every single day,” he said, ~*3,000 young people become regular smokers, and nearly 1,000 of them
will die prematurely as a result.”

The president said “there are some things we can do at the governmental level." But he added: “No
matter whal you do with the law, people have to change inside. And somebody has to help them change
inside. And we have to do it in an organized, disciplined way.”

Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said the president might work with Congress to
embody new tobacco regulations in law. But he made clear that Clinton squarely had rejected the
voluntary approach, suggested by some members of Congress, in which cigarette makers would
undertake an anti-smoking public relations campaign or help states enforce existing laws against salcs to
minors, which are often loosely enforced.

Instead, White House aides suggested, the president would be willing to force Congress to overturn new
regulations if it wanted to, on the theory that defending the tobacco industry is a losing proposition among
voters nationwide. Clinton's political support in many Souther states -- like North Carolina, which he
lost narrowly in 1992 -- is already shaky for a host of other reasons.

U.S. Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., broached a compromise on a voluntary approach two weeks ago,
warning Clinton to avoid years of litigation during which teen-agers still would smoke. He urged
Wednesday that his plan be re-examined.

“The president needs to retain enough flexibility to avoid the gridlock, which will produce
another generation of smokers," Wyden warned.

Clinton mentioned smoking only at the tail end of a 50-minute speech inwhich he largely reiterated
themes he had sounded in recent weeks about the importance of so-called family values.

Back in Washington, presidential advisers were concerned that that might be interpreted as a softening
of the president's resolve, so McCurry announced that Clinton intended to deliver the details Thursday.
Copyright (c) 1995, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2163

Sc60 PPrlEes