4/9
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07639093

CAPITAL DIARY

Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, May 19, 1994

By: From wire reports

Edition. FOURTH Section: GRAPHICS Page: All
Word Count: 531

MEMO:
TYPE: Column
COLUMN: Capital Diary

TEXT;
WASHINGTON - ROSTENKOWSKI EYES PLEA

Lawyers for Rep. Dan Rostenkowski have approached federal prosecutors to
(ry to negotiate a plea bargain that would avert a broad felony indictment
against the powerful Illinois Democrat, lawyers involved in the case said
Wednesday.

The lawyers said that at this point the government and Rostenkowski’s
lawyers were still far apart and that the effort could go nowhere, in which
case Rostenkowski could be indicted, possibly before Memorial Day.

The inquiry that threatens Rostenkowski began in 1991 when investigators
began examining accusations that postal clerks had stolen money from their
cash drawers at the House mailing office, In July 1993, Robert V. Rota, the
former House postmaster, pleaded guilty to misdemeanor embezzlement
charges, implicating Rostenkowski in a scheme to disguise cash payments as
postage stamp purchases.

Since then, investigators have conducted a broad inquiry, examining
Rostenkowski's office accounts, including expenditures for office supplies,
his hiring practices in his Chicago district office and his use of
government-leased automobiles. Rostenkowski has denied any wrongdoing.

WYDEN , WAXMAN SEEK SUBPOENA OVERRULE

 

Reps. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., and Henry Waxman, D-Calif, will ask a
federal judge Thursday to intervene in an escalating battle witha
Louisville, Ky., tobacco company.

They want the court to overrule a Kentucky state judge's subpoena,
congressional lawyers said in a letler to Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Corp. The state judge ordered Waxman and Wyden to let the tobacco
company review documents it claims were stolen by a disgruntled worker.

The documents indicate executives knew more than 30 years ago that
smoking is dangerous and nicotine addictive. Waxman's health subcommittee
plans to go ahead with hearings into the documents despite the subpoena,
which Wyden dismissed Wednesday as posturing.

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2197

 

6S60 prles