4/9/90
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07668217

WYDEN STAFFER SETS RECORD STRAIGHT
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, June 17, 1994

Edition: FOURTH Section: EDITORIAL Page: E08
Word Count: 270

MEMO:
TYPE: Letters to the editor

TEXT:

To the Editor: As the staff member for Rep. Ron Wyden referred to in your
editorial on the congressional investigation into the tobacco industry
(June 10), I'd like to set the record straight.

Tronically, though critical of my handling of documents taken froma
tobacco company, you had clamored for the very same documents. Long after
newspapers reported that the documents were allegedly stolen, The Oregonian
asked me to Jeak them for publication.

Like all similar requests before, ] declined. That's not to say that you
acted inappropriately by asking. To the contrary, good journalism exposes
wrongdoing, But it's a double standard when you apply one set of rules to
nx and another to your own paper.

In addition, what you called an “‘argument" over the documents, U.S.
District Judge Harold Greene termed an attempt to “intimidate” Wyden .
You also neglected to note that Greene ruled in favor of Wyden and
against the tobacco company, upholding a decades-old precedent that there
is a constitutional right to inform the government of violations of federal
law.

Your criticism of the treatment of tobacco company chief executive
officers at a congressional hearing also deserves comment. It seems that
you think the subcommittee should have allowed these media-savvy executives
to dodge tough questions with their lengthy soliloquies comparing the
health hazards of smoking to the risks posed by eating Twinkies.

Having seen your no-nonsense editorial board in action, I have no doubt
that you would vigorously challenge similar filibustering claptrap from a
visiting elected official.

JOSH KARDON,
chief of staff U.S. Rep. Ron Wyden Washington, D.C.
Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

Ly60 vrles

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2185