499117
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

09180256

SENATORS PAL AROUND FOR OREGON'S, OWN BENEFIT
Oregonian (PO) - Sunday, June 29, 1997

By: JEFF MAPES of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: LOCAL STORIES Page: BOI

MEMO:
1
N

TEXT:
Summary: Democrat Ron Wyden and Republican Gordon Smith share political
positions and personal praise at a Saturday forum

Not long ago they were questioning cach other's integrity in prime-time
political ads. But Saturday, Oregon's two U.S. senators shared a Northeast
Portland stage and couldn't say enough nice things about each other,

More than 300 people who jammed Westminster Presbyterian Church got a
full dose of the odd-couple pair Democrat Ron Wyden and Republican Gordon
Smith have become.

Wyden , who beat Smith in a special Senate election in January 1996, joked
that some people might think they were showing up to watch “the prelim for
the Tyson-Holyfield fight tonight.”

In truth they have become good friends, said Wyden , who was host of
the event. We are a partnership for Oregon," he said.

Smith noted an aide's quip that it might be the first time a Mormon
Republican senator and a Jewish Democratic senator have met in a
Presbyterian church.

“By nature, Ron Wyden and I tend to be conciliators,” said Smith,
who gained a Senate seat in the November election. “We tend to be people
who want to get something done."

From there, the two took turns answering questions -- always being sure
to put the other in the best light.

For cxample, Wyden answered a query about crime by replying: “You
have two senators who don't take a back seat to anybody on issues of law
enforcement.”

Smith praised Wyden for joining in support of legislation to balance
the budget and cut taxes -- without mentioning that the two disagree on
several specifics.

Because it benefits the state, the senators have pledged to work
together since Smith was sworn in Jan. 7. Italso provides political
dividends for each by giving them a moderate, pragmatic image.

That image is particularly helpful for Wyden , who is up for

6980 +rles

RJRO0000001 41017986

70053 2107