companies to produce safe products. In 1995, they discussed replacing the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration with private companies. The GOP also
would ease rules on potential threats ranging from pesticides to gas
pipelines. President Clinton has sought tougher regulation of some
products, most notably cigarettes ,

WYDEN : Considered a consumer advocate, particularly on health care and
pharmaccuticals. Has pushed for lower drug prices and tests of the RU-486
“abortion pill." Defends FDA funding but supports streamlining its
drug-approval process. Wants to ease rules for testing AIDS treatments and
allow exports of drugs awaiting U.S. approval. Opposes Clinton's plan to
regulate cigaretic sales to minors, saying it would get tied up in court.

Says the tobacco industry should fund anti-smoking programs for teens.

SMITH: Wants a balance between the needs of business and consumers. Some
federal health standards, for instance, allow a one-in-a-million risk of
death, while the limit for cancer-causing pesticides in processed food is
zero risk of death. Smith would relax that standard. Says the FDA doesn't
have the time or staff to regulate nicotine as a drug.

LAWSUIT REFORM

THE ISSUE: Businesses say they are being forced under by greedy lawyers.
Republicans made lawsuit reform a plank in their “Contract With America.”
Congress is considering limits on punitive damages in lawsuits in which
consumers sue manufacturers of defective products.

WYDEN : Says the Republican tort reform package in Congress will
inhibit legitimate consumer and worker lawsuits. Agrees that lawsuits are
out of hand in some areas. Last year, he supported making it harder for
investors to sue stockbrokers and other financial professionals,

SMITH: Supports caps on punitive damage awards and requiring the loser
of a lawsuit to pay the winner's costs. Would leave tort reform to slates
except in the arca of interstate commerce. Supports the investor lawsuit
reform Wyden voted for.

LABOR UNIONS

THE ISSUE: President Clinton supports legislation barring companies from
firing and replacing striking workers, but congressional Republicans have
thwarted him. Clinton also tied to raise the federal minimum wage.
Republicans oppose that, saying employers would be forced to hire fewer
workers.

WYDEN : Has taken hits from Jabor for supporting free trade but is
receiving labor's financial backing. Opposes use of replacement workers
during strikes. Supports increasing the federal minimum wage from $4.25 to
$5.25 an hour.

SMITH: Has backed state legislation opposed by labor unions, including a
1995 bill restricting public employce bargaining rights. Says forbidding
companies from using replacement workers in a strike gives unions an unfair
advantage. Opposes any major increase in the minimum wage but would back
incremental increases.

CUTTING RED TAPE

RJRO0000001 41017986

PO053 2139

L060 +rLES