4/9/78
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian, All rts. reserv.

07815127

WYDEN WANTS COMPROMISE ON TOBACCO
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, November 11, 1994

Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A26
Word Count: 270

TEXT:

Responding to a GOP threat to stop the congressional investigation of the
tobacco industry and to fight the Food and Dmg Administration's efforts
to regulate tobacco , Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., said all he wants is
sensible regulation,

“What I'm interested in, with respect to tobacco , is sensible
regulation to keep kids from starting to smoke,” said Wyden . “In my
view, that's nota Democratic approach or a Republican approach. That's a
sensible approach.”

Rep. Thomas Bliley, R-Va., who is in line to be the new chairman of the
Health and Environment subcommittee of the Energy and Commerce Committee,
has said he will stop the investigation and fight the FDA over the matter.

Virginia is 4 tobacco -producing state.

Wyden , who has been at the forefront of the battle with the tobacco
industry, said Thursday he would take every avenue available to promote
bipartisan support on regulating the industry.

“If I were (health subcommittee) chairman from a tobacco state, I'd
be working with members on both sides of the aisle,” the Oregon lawmaker
said,

Wyden , who easily won re-election Tuesday, said he was nol seeking a
ban on tobacco .

“I would be against banning tobacco ," he said. That would be a lot
like Prohibition. What I am in favor of are sensible policies for keeping
young people from getting started."

Wyden said those policies would include stricter enforcement of the
law against selling tobacco products to minors, keeping cigarette
vending machines from access by underage people and restricting the
distribution of free samples.

Wyden said that with the GOP-controlied Congress, the oulcome on the
matter is uncertain.

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO000000141017986

70053 2172

PEGO PrLEes