Af9/114
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. AJ] rts. reserv.

07608148

SMOKING REGULATION A TRICKY PROPOSITION

Oregonian (PO) - MONDAY, April 18, 1994

By: DAVID E, ROSENBAUM with PHILIP J. HILTS New York Times News Service
Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: AO]

MEMO:
TYPE; National

TEXT:

WASHINGTON - Summary: As the push for federal laws grows stronger,
lawmakers find options are limited in their efforts 10 curb use of tobacco
products

The momentum is building, no doubt about it. But the time does not seem
to be ripe this year for new federal Jaws or regulations that would sharply
curtail the use of tobacco .

Politicians are moving slowly for many reasons, but the main onc may be
that no one is sure exactly what to do to stop people from smoking.
Outlawing cigarettes seems to be out of the question. It raises the
prospect of the corruption and gangsterism that prevailed during
Prohibition.

“I think we have enough experience with alcohol," said Rep. Mike
Synar, D-Okla., who is a leader in the anti-smoking drive in the House of
Representatives.

“Alcohol didn't work, because of the black market," Synar said.
“Secondly, it's a little dishonest to say in one breath that nicotine is
an addictive drug, that 50 million smokers are addicted, and then not have
some sense of compassion and understanding that to ban the product would be
cruel punishment,"

Another possibility would be to eliminate or restrict nicotine in
cigarettes , but that might also be casier to address in the abstract than
in the particular.

David Kessler, commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, told
Congress last week that he was not sure what the public health consequences
would be. Reducing the amount of nicotine in cigarettes , he said, might
simply push smokers to smoke more cigarettes , thus causing themselves
more damage.

“How should nicotine be regulated?" he asked the lawmakers, the tone
of his voice emphasizing the difficulty of the question. ‘What is the
right way?"

While broad strokes against smoking seem unlikely this year, the
political momentum is clear. Last month alone, the Labor Department took
the first steps toward outlawing smoking in all workplaces in the country,

0260 +rles

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2208