4/9147
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv,

08528112

1996 VOTERS' GUIDE: GORDON SMITH, RON WYDEN

Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, January 28, 1996

By: TOM BATES, DEE LANE, BRENT WALTH, STEVE SUO and JEFF MAPES - of The
Oregonian staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: GRAPHICS FORUM Page: F05

Word Count: 2,888

MEMO:

U.S. Senate Campaign

Election 96 1996 Voters' Guide
TYPE: Biography Profile

TEXT:

Summary: Gordon Smith says he'll bring fresh ideas to the Senate; Ron
Wyden says he'll continue to fight for the average person. With this look

al where they stand on a wide varicty of important issnes, you can be the

judge

SAFETY NET
WELFARE REFORM

THE ISSUE: Congress passed a bill that would eliminate welfare as an
entitlement and fund the program by giving block grants to states.
President Clinton has promised to veto the bill.

WYDEN : Supports welfare reform being tried in Oregon. Accepts requiring
teen-age mothers to live al home as an experiment but is unsure whether it
will work. Opposes a provision that kicks two-parent families off welfare
in the summer. Supports a two-year limit on benefits but opposes reducing
benefits to parents who have additional children on welfare.

SMITH: Voted for Oregon's welfare reform plan, which requires welfare
recipients to participate in an education or training program. There is a
two-year limit on benefits, and teen-age mothers are required to live at
home or in another supervised setting. In the federal arena, Smith supports
most of the GOP plan but opposes reducing benefits to parents who have
additional children while on welfare.

SOCIAL SECURITY

THE ISSUE: Social Security for seniors has been largely untouchable
despite its growing cost. Some in Congress suggest changing calculations of
cost-of-living adjustments to slow growth. The program's disability portion
has come under greater attack.

WYDEN : Supports the senior program and wants thorough review of the
disability program, which he says has “become an anti-drug program." Says
he is not willing to kick people off disability payments without looking at
where they would end up.

S680 +rlLEes

RJROO000001 41017986
70053 2133