plan, reimbursing doctors, hospitals and other health care providers in
much the same way Medicare now operates. National board updates basic
benefits package. Individuals choose doctors and all other medical care.

How it controls costs: Annual growth of health care costs tied to growth
of gross domestic product. States, which must operate within budget or find
additional money, set overall amounts to be paid for types of services and
negotiate fees for those services. Administrative overhead and profit of
private health insurance companies eliminated.

Oregon plan: Provides more generous benefits package and would eliminate
need for rationing.

Special concern: Member of House Speaker's Task Force on Choice working
to ensure abortion coverage included.

REP. BOB SMITH, REP.

He signed on as a co-sponsor last year to a conservative Republican
proposal for health care reform authored by House Minority Leader Bob
Michel. Smith says he now wants to consider other proposals and offered few
specifics for health care:

What's covered: To be determined.
Who's covered; To be determined.

Who pays: Individuals and employers continue to pay for health care but
no employer is forced to pay for health care. Coverage for poor and other
aspects to be determined.

How it works: The private health insurance industry and consumer choices
are preserved as much as possible.

How it controls cost: Reduces paperwork, encourages competition, places
limits on malpractice suits.

Oregon plan: Allows Oregon to proceed with health plan.

Special concer: Opposes changes that make health care worse for all in
trying to remedy care for some.

SEN. BOB PACKWOOD, REP.

He is the ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, the key
Senate panel overseeing health care reform. He does not talk to reporters
for The Oregonian and would not discuss his vision of health care for this
article.

However, he has frequently introduced a bill, most recently in late
1991, that would require employers to pay 80 percent of a worker's premium
and provide government subsidies for small businesses and the poor. He has
reiterated his support for such a plan, in many ways similar to the
president's proposal, during the current health care debate. He has said
recently, however, that he doesn't believe Congress will agree to force
employers to pay for health insurance and has suggested that lawmakers will

S60 PrlEes

RJRO000000141017986

POOSS 2192