But even in an environment where TV lights are one of life's nutrients,
some members of Congress occasionally grumble thal Wyden is a little too
attracted to the spotlight and too eager to take credit.

Feminist leaders -- among them Patrica Ireland of the National
Organization for Women, Eleanor Smeal of the Fund for a Feminist Majority
and Rep. Patricia Schroeder, D-Colo. -- praise him for his role in women’s
health issues, especially his efforts to bring RU-486, the abortion drug,
to the United States.

“He's done a very good job bringing a lot of issues people were afraid
of to the forefront,” Schroeder said. “Many people ran and hid under the
table whenever they heard the words RU-486."

out his effectiveness, saying he fails to take on the health industry
heavyweights and weigh in on substanlive issues such as health care reform.

“The problem with Ron Wyden is that he doesn't have any political
guts," said consumer activist Ralph Nader, who carly on praised the
Oregonian for his stand on consumer and health issues but today is sharply
critical of him.

“He cannot be relied on to fight the good fight all the way," Nader
said. “He caves in a lot. He’s the waverer from Oregon. When push comes to
shove, Ron Wyden is shoved.”

But Wyden ticks off alist of what he says are successful battles
against the industry's big guys.

He said reforming Medigap insurance -- private policies for services not
included under Medicare -- challenged the insurance industry. Opening the
medical databank, he said, overcame objections of the American Medical
Association. The drug companies opposed efforts to cut the cost of
prescription drugs, he said. And the tobacco companies, he said, remain
very powerful,

“That doesn't strike me as taking on easy pickings,” he said.

The 45-year-old Wyden is carnest and urgent, not so much about the
health care reform abstractions of managed competition and purchasing
cooperatives as about the health issues that affect people's daily lives.

In the last five years, his crusades have touched on laboratory tests,
birth control, Norplant, the cost of prescription drugs, the cost of
contraceptives, home care, tissue banks, tobacco , domestic violence, dict
ads, malnutrition, fertility, uranium exposure, patents, biotechnology,
childhood vaccinations, veterans health care, cosmetics, diet pills, fake
abortion clinics, the ties between research labs and drug companies, and
the qualifications of bureaucrats who reject Medicare claims.

“If you or your loved ones don't have health, everything else is at a

960 PPrLEeS

RJR00000001 41017986
70053 2174