Thomas J. Bliley Jr., R-Va., said, “I'll be damned if (the executives) are
to be sacrificed on the altar of political correctness.”

Food and Drug Administration officials recently announced that they
believe the agency has the authority to regulate cigarettes as drugs
because of the addictive nature of nicotine, and the agency is actively
exploring the possibility.

“This hearing marks the beginning of a new relationship between
Congress and the tobacco companies,” Waxman said. ~The old rules are
out -- the standards that apply to every other company are in.”

Over and over Thursday, industry officials denied that they manipulate
nicotine levels to keep smokers addicted.

“We do not do anything to hook smokers or keep them hooked" any more
than coffee manufacturers manipulate caffeine, said James W. Johnston,
chairman and chief execulive officer of R.J. Reynolds Co. “This company is
not engaged in some sinister plot to deceive the American smoker."

- Nicotine “enhances"

Nicotine, he added, only **enhances the overall smoking experience.”

Nevertheless, all of the executives acknowledged that nicotine
concentrations could be adjusted through blending different tobaccos -- a
practice they said their companies all engaged in when manufacturing
cigarettes to accommodate different tastes.

“Yes, people will get different concentrations of nicotine in
cigarettes , depending on the blending process,” said Alexander W.
Spears, vice chairman of Lorillard.

“Our smokers want a consistent product,” Johnston said, insisting that
the formulas were followed to maintain the individual qualities of each
particular brand. ““Our smokers want Winstons to taste like Winstons --
yesterday, today and tomorrow."

They also denied that nicotine was an addictive substance -- despite
scientific evidence to the contrary -- maintaining that more than 40
million Americans had been able to quit the habit.

~Smokers are not drug users or addicts, and we do not appreciate being
characterized as such," said William Campbell, president of Phillip Morris
U.S.A. “T have a common-sense definition of addiction. I'm a smoker, and
T'm not a drug addict.”

After being pressured by several subcommittee members, the tobacco
officials, who have been accused of suppressing research showing the
addictive qualities of nicotine, reluciantly agreed to turn over all of
their animal research, notes, internal memorandums and other data to the
subcommittee.

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2217