held by the two. Wyden takes an essentially optimistic attitude about the
future of the country, while DeFazio has a darker vision.

 

“People really fecl that the American dream is being provided to a
smaller and smaller segment of society,” said DeFazio, arguing that
corporations are using their political pull to win access to cheap foreign
labor.

Wyden countered: “Sometimes I listen to him and you say, “You ought
to gcl a map.’ Because this corner of the world bencfits greatly from
international trade. . . . 1 think trade is a way to fill our hiring lines
again with people in a position to get good-wage jobs."

To DeFazio, Wyden is offering little more than the status quo. “If
people generally feel the Senate is doing a good job," DeFazio said, “and
they'd like to see il just nudged a little bit in a different direction,
then I would urge them to vote for my opponent.”

Wyden agrees there is a big choice between him and DeFazio but says
his advantage is that he can do a better job of bringing people together.
“Dividing us is a piece of cake," he said. “I'm not about that. I'm
about finding common ground."

It probably was inevitable that the two would wind up in a primary
against each other. Each man has becn interested in the Senate for years
and has viewed the other as a potential adversary. Privately, DeFazio
supporters always complained that Wyden focused on easy issues and was
afraid to take a tough stand. Wyden ‘s friends and aides whispered back
that DeFazio was good at arm-waving but not at getting anything done.

Some Democratic officials have worried that ihe Wyden -DeFazio battle
will turn into a bloodbath that will only help the Republicans. Wyden and
DeFazio each say they don’t expect that to happen. But, clearly, each finds
a lot not to like in the other.

Jeff Mapes covers potitics and voters for The Oregonian. He can be
reached at 221-8209 or by mail at 1320 §.W. Broadway, Portland 97201,

CAPTION;
PHOTO

Color Photo of PETER DEFAZIO -- RON WYDEN
Graphics text -- DEMOCRATS: HOW THEY VOTED
Graphics text -- SENATE CANDIDATES (list)
Copyright (c) 1995, The Oregonian Publishing Company

DESCRIPTORS: PETER DEFAZIO; RON WYDEN ; CANDIDATE; CONGRESS

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2153

S160 Pyles