Aside from the congressmen's uncontrollable addiction to grandstanding
-- shocking only to people who wonder why velociraptors can’t just have a
nice salad -- the message of the day was how little space is left for
cigarette manufacturers to stand on. They have had to construct a
position as narrow as a tobacco stem, because all their traditional
Statements are now likely to draw either laughter or lawsuits.

Tobacco manufacturers can still insist, as they did Thursday, that
they have not been personally convinced of the health dangers of
cigarettes . But because they are facing waves of liability litigation,
they also have to maintain that people are making intclligent, informed
decisions whether to smoke.

“There is virtually universal awareness among the American public,"
Johnston declared stoutly, “of the health risks involved in smoking.”

This was under oath, by the head of one of the nation’s biggest tobacco
companics. Observers expected the oil paintings of the distinguished
former committee chairmen to fall off the wall.

Sometimes, it seemed that even the most carefully constructed positions
turned out to be too exposed. Asked whether he would want his children to
smoke, William I. Campbell of Philip Morris USA declared, with just a hint
of rehearsal, “I don't want my childrcn to smoke. I don't want your
children to smoke. ] want adults to smoke.”

But several minutes of sober second thoughts later, he clarified, “I
said I wanted adults to smoke. That is not what I meant to communicate. J
want adults to make their own choices."

This is the space that cigarette manufacturers have left now: They
make a product that they can't say they want pcople to use.

This gives you a public relations image just above a strect gang, The
picture, Rep. Mike Synar, D-Okla., suggested afterward, was ~“seven
executives with no moral responsibility for their products. They looked
like seven of the most expensive drug kingpins you've ever seen."

The hearing, Synar expects, will give impetus to his bill to put
tobacco under the control of the Food and Drug Administration, giving the
FDA jurisdiction over production, sales, manufacture and advertising. This
bill, he insists, is the moderate approach: Synar warns that the
alternative is to have the FDA bring cigarettes under its present drug
standard, rule that they are not “safe and efficacious,” and ban them.

This would not only annoy some very large companies, create cigarette
bootlegging and oncc again cause North Carolina to secede, it would make a
big hole in plans to finance a new health care system. The steps to avoid
that may have to be as careful as a tobacco executive's explanation.

There's less and less space remaining -- and the risk of a serious
dependence on Twinkies,

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO000000141017986

7G053 2212

$160 vrles