re-election in 1998 and hopes to avoid strong Republican opposition.

Marge Woodall, a veteran Clackamas County Republican activist who
attended the joint meeting, said she realized they had to work together to
get things done in the Senate.

“Still, I hate to see them forgetting that one's a Republican, and
one's a Democrat," she said with a sigh. She acknowledged that all the
chumminess could make it harder to recruit a Wyden challenger.

Smith, whose hometown is Pendleton, doesn't have to run again until
2002. But he took full advantage of Wyden 's invitation to reach out to a
Portland crowd that, like the city, appeared to be heavily Democratic.

He charmed the urbanites with his stories of commuting on the subway in
Washington, D.C., and delivered a strong defense of expanding light rail in
Portland. Federal dollars have played a huge role in building the city's
MAX hine.

Light rail is less expensive, Smith said, than sitting in traffic jams
“burning up petrochemicals.”

Smith also joined Wyden in speaking sympathetically of protecting the
Little Sandy River watershed from logging to help expand Portland's supply
of water from Bull Run.

The only issue on which the two senators openly disagreed was campaign
finance reform,

Wyden said he backs the McCain-Feingold bill, which would sharply
limit political contributions and expenditures.

Smith called it an infringement on free speech and said he wanted to
tequire daily reporting of contributions, “so if Gordon Smith gets too
much from timber companies, or Ron Wyden gets too much from unions, that
can be a legitimate focus of debate.”

Both denounced tobacco companies and smoking, an issue in which each
has become active.

Smith called tobacco “a gateway drug" and said he would continue to
support crackdowns on cigarette sales to youths. Wyden said he would
Not support a proposed $368 billion settlement between tobacco companies
and states unless it includes provisions keeping the industry from
marketing to children overscas.

Wyden also took a dig al Republican Senate leaders in general by
saying that Smith showed “exceptional courage" in voling to raise
cigarette taxes last month. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, R-Miss.,
opposed the increase.

Jeff Mapes covers politics for the Public Life team, Contact him by
phone at 221-8209, by mail at 1320 S.W. Broadway, Portland, Ore. 97201, or
by e-mail at jeffmapes @news.oregonian.com.

Color Photo by MICHAEL LLOYD of The Oregonian staff
Copyright (c) 1997, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO000000141017986

70053 2408

0280 PrlEes