RJRO000000141017986
73053 2214

His boss, Andrew Tisch, Lorillard’s chic executive officer, told Waxman
al Thursday morning's hearing that the congressman unfairly had blasted the
company in the news media without the facts. Tisch asked that Spears be
allowed an extended statement to defend himself.

Waxman responded that Spcars would have ample time for defense when he
questioned him at the end of the hearing.

Waxman also planned to question the executives about a 1983 study by a
Philip Morris scientist that indicated nicotine was addictive. The study
never was published, and five years elapsed before the surgeon general's
report that reached the same conclusion, Waxman has accused Philip Mortis
of stifling the science.

But Philip Morris President William Campbell testified Thursday that the
study in question didn't show nicotine was addictive because the laboratory
rats showed no signs of withdrawal.

“The presence of nicotine does not make cigarettes a drug or smoking
an addiction,” he said. “‘Coffee, Mr. Chairman, has caffeine, and few
people seem to enjoy coffee that does not. Does that make coffee a drug?"

However, an expert at the National Institutes of Health who analyzed the
1983 Philip Morris study has said researchers then simply didn't know how
lo recognize withdrawal symptoms in rats but that other aspects of the
study did conclude the animals were addicted to nicotine.

The hearing comes a day after the companies, under intense pressure from
Congress, released a top-secret list of 599 chemicals they add to
cigarettes . ,

Federal law requires the companies to disclose the additives to the

government, but it prohibits unauthorized public disclosure under penalty
of jail.

Faced with growing complaints about the secrecy, the industry on
Wednesday released the list of chemicals, along with information about
foods in which they naturally occur.

“We've been misunderstood, misrepresented, and we want the American
public to know there is not any misrepresentation," said Dr. Robert Suber,
a toxicologist for R.J. Reynolds, which spearheaded the unveiling.

Some of the additives are as simple as chocolate, wine or rum. But
critics say some do pose safety questions and that companies still hide how
much of the chemicals is in cach puff.

“We really don't know the health effects of smoking a cigarette with
a very specific quantity of chemicals added in a specific combination,"
said Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., who vowed to press the companies for more
information.

CAPTION:
PHOTO

Photo By JOHN DURICKA/Associated Press

9160 ves