with “Team Romania Safari" written on the vehicles, and a canoe on the
top, as if to suggest the fording of rivers, though they're all badly
polluted. It's bogus, but still impressive, in a country where funds for
such a trek and vehicles are normally non-existent.

Down the street, on top of a four-story apartment building, a large
billboard, widely visible, shows the Lucky Strike logo, and proclaims, in
English, “An American Original” and ““Madc in the U.S.A."

Within two blocks of Lucky Strike, an L&M billboard shows two
trendy-looking Americans in a new Mustang convertible, and a Marlboro one
near it depicts two immaculate cowboys sharing a cigarette -

The most shameful effort at the moment is that of Winston: All week two
attractive, healthy-looking young women in athletic warm up outfits and
baseball caps with the Winston logo have been passing out free cigarettes
to passersby on one of the city's main thoroughfares, just steps away from
a big high school.

Each afternoon, when schoo! lets out, the teen-agers line up for their free samples.

Fancy German station wagons and 4x4s painted with the logos of Camel,
Winston, Marlboro and other cigarette companies are seen all over town.
The firms vie to provide bars, hotels, restaurants and discos with their
ashtrays, wastcebaskets, clocks, posters and signs. TV is saturated with
cigarette ads, as are sports events, trams, gas stations, supermarket
windows, newspaper kiosks and just about any other public space where
there's room for them,

Our State Department is complicitous, assisting these merchants of death
in their efforts. The U.S. Embassy in Bucharest has a full-time American
diplomat and four Romanian staffers who promote U.S. business interests
here. A good bit of their time is devoted to assisting the tobacco traffickers.

What is illegal and immoral at home is not only OK here, it is
subsidized by our government.

Nine of my eleven well-educated graduate students in anthropology here
smoke. It is expected that faculty allow 10-minute breaks every 50 minutes
in our three-hour classes. The length of the break is based on the time it
takes to smoke a cigarette .

These same well-dressed, serious, Western-oriented students have trouble
believing cigarette smoking isn’t fashionable and cool in American
colleges. In fact, they know it is: They've seen too many American movies,
some made for a non-American market, in which most glamorous, prosperous
people smoke, to believe otherwise.

The cigarette companies and their ad agencies and media people have
outdone themselves in Romania, and their efforts are tremendously

successful. They also bear much of the blame for the extremely high rate of lung cancer here.

When is our government going to stop promoting this lethal habit outside our borders?

G. James Patterson is a professor of anthropology at Eastern Oregon
University in La Grande and a visiting Fulbright professor of anthropology

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2103

 

 

S980 PrlEs