4/9/1143
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

05260297

MARCHERS IN NORTH PORTLAND DECRY DRUG USE
OREGONIAN (PQ) - SUNDAY September 17, 1989

By: HOLLY DANKS and DON HAMILTON of the Oregonian Staff
Edition: FOURTH Section: Local Stories Page: D0O1

TEXT:
Summary: Officials at an earlier forum say more money is needed for
treatment and law enforcement activities

Public officials called Saturday for more money to fight the war on
drugs -- a plea that would have found favor with the participants in a
neighborhood march later in the day in North Portland.

About 200 people participated in a march and rally against drugs, racism
and other problems that plague their community. As the marchers paraded
from King Neighborhood Facility to Unthank Park in North Portland, they
shouted at the drug dealers and gangs that have disrupted life in the area.

Earlier, at a forum organized by U.S. Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., a panel of
11 speakers outlined their ideas and their agencies’ plans for fighting
what they agreed is the biggest problem facing Portland and the nation.
They convened before about 45 listeners at Hosford Middle School in
Southeast Portland.

Jeffrey Kushner, assistant director of the Oregon Office of Alcohol and
Drug Abuse Programs, said more money was needed for treatment. There is a
four-year waiting list in Oregon for pregnant women needing drug treatment
and a six-week wait for adolescents who want help, he said.

"The thing you have to remember is that there is a war going on -- and
it's not a war on drugs," said the FBI's Danny O. Coulson."It's a war on
you."

Coulson, special agent in charge of the Portland regional office of the
FBI, compared those who supply black tar heroin, cocaine, methamphetamines
and other drugs to an army -- not taking territory but, instead, "the
hearts and the minds of your children."

"And we have to decide to fight it," Coulson said, eliciting one of the
forum's few outbreaks of applause.

Several other speakers said the war on drugs had already begun, but that
it needed more funding:

*Andrew Vita, special agent in charge of the Seattle district of the
U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, said that if there were
more money his office could investigate many more than the 90 criminal
cases brought against 145 defendants last year for gun violence associated
with the distribution of drugs.

*Richard Brinck, manager of the Oregon region of the U.S. Department of

RJROO0000001 41017986

70053 2222

$860 Prles