Better, Wyden thinks, to work out an immediate deal on teen smoking
with the industry. He has done just that with Rep. Charlie Rose, a tobacco
-land Democrat from North Carolina. The Wyden -Rose accord would be a
binding pact between the feds and the industry, monitored by the Department
of Health and Human Resources.

The tobacco industry would put up the cash to enforce minimum-age laws
now going unenforced in almost all states, since officials don't have the
moncy or manpower and are too busy chasing violent criminals. The Wyden
-Rose compromise would have the tobacco companies -- not the taxpayers --
picking up the tab for the problem they create. Tobacco companics would
also have to suspend sales to retailers caught selling to minors. Moreover,
not only would the industry agree not to target teens in its ads, but it
would also pay for an educational campaign against youth smoking.

What would the tobacco industry gain in the deal? A pass on FDA
regulation of tobacco . The president would not waive his regulatory
authority in this area; he would simply stay silent on the issue -- and
thus avoid costly and time-wasting hiligation that prevents real action to
curb teen smoking.

The Wyden -Rose compromise doesn't look tough; it is simply tough
action against teen smoking. Its substance-over-style plan rejects heavy
government regulation and establishes a partnership between government and
industry. Says Wyden , “This is going to require that you break out of
the old boxes.”

Avoiding protracted battles over the FDA regulation or separate federal
mandates and actually doing something about underage smoking ought to be a
natural for a president who says he's a ‘New Democrat.” ‘

Maybe the plan's political payoffs aren't as promising. Clinton doesn't
get to demonize the tobacco industry or provoke a hysterical response
from the Republican Congress. But the last time he tried demonizing an
industry and provoking Republicans -- the drug companies and health care
reform -- things didn't work out that well.

In fact, the politics of the issue should be irrelevant. As Wyden
points out, if the industry ties up regulations for three years, 3 million
more teens will start smoking, and 1 million will eventually die from tobacco .

“The tobacco industry shouldn't be trusted, but if Clinton thinks
creatively we can help kids more quickly than through conventional
regulation,” says Wyden . “The question shouldn't be whether or not to
regulate, bul how to curb youth smoking.”

Exactly.
Clinton has to decide if he's ready to sacrifice the lives of children
lo scare up votes, Tough talk about federal regulation could prove far

tougher on America's kids.

David Reinhard is an associate editor of The Oregonian. He can be
telephoned at 221-8152 or reached by mail at 1320 SW Broadway, Portland, OR 97201.

£260 +PlEes

RJRO0000000141017986
70053 2165