4/9193
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

07661019

INVESTIGATE, DON'T DEMONIZE

Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, June 10, 1994

Edition; FOURTH Section: EDITORIAL Page: D08

MEMO:
TYPE: Editorial

TEXT:
Summary: Let's sec some rational discourse in June 20 hearing

Neither Reps. Ron Wyden , Henry A. Waxman and Mike Synar nor U.S.
tobacco companies have exactly covered themselves in glory in their
bitter debate over the health dangers of cigarette smoking.

In earlier hearings before Waxman's House subcommitiee on health, the
three Democratic congressmen from Oregon, California and Oklahoma were
needlessly rude and inquisilorial with executives of several tobacco
companies.

It could be painful to watch. The congressmen cut off the tobacco
officials in midsentence to demand ~yes" or no" responses, appeared to
have already made up their minds and demonstrated more interest in making
speeches and asking questions than in getting answers.

For their part, the tobacco executives were maddeningly evasive, as
they have been for a generation about the health dangers of smoking.

That said, the hearing did produce some startling new information:
Philip Morris U.S.A.‘ admission that it suppressed a study on the
addictive qualities of nicotine; an admission that nicotine concentrations
in cigarettes can be manipulated through blending tobaccos; and results
of industry studies on human and animal experiments with nicotine
addiction.

Now there's an argument over whether the congressmen got stolen goods
when Wyden received 31-year-old internal reports from Brown & Williamson
Corp., the nation’s third-largest tobacco company.

The documents show that the company suspected that smoking was indeed
dangerous and that nicotine was indeed addictive. Its general counsel
suggested in July 1963 that the company admit that nicotine was ~-an
addictive drug." Nothing happened.

The Wyden staffer who got the reports from a secondary source says he
asked if they were protected by any court order -- they weren't -- but
never thought to ask if they were stolen.

Brown & Williamson's Louisville, Ky., law firm is suing a former
paralegal, Dr. Merrell Williams, alleging that he copied and gave the
documents to Congress and half a dozen reporters. That has yet to be proved
in court, although Williams has given back some documents and has refused

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2186

8P60 PILES