their approaches to the job. I's no accident they don't even get along
well.

Wyden is a former senior-citizens advocate with a Jong record of
pro-consumer legislative successes. In his 15 years in the House, Wyden
has kept friendly working relationships with legislators from both sides of
the aisle and keeps up a determinedly nice-guy image in his Portland-arca
3rd District.

DeFazio learned congressional politics as an aide to former Rep. Jim
Weaver, the cantankerous populist who preceded DeFazio in representing the
4th District.

Since entering Congress, DeFazio has taken on his party leadership,
stepped into constant controversy and freely fired brickbats. On the
smoking bill, for example, he claimed he would have won his total ban in
committee except “this worm Jimmy Hayes" -- a Democratic congressman from
Louisiana -- changed his vote at the last moment. You'd never hear such
name-calling of a fellow lawmaker from Wyden .

*Stylistically, they're worlds apart," said Jon Chandler, a lobbyist
for the Oregon homebuilders’ industry. “Ron is generally cautions, while
Peter is from the Jim Weaver school of politics -- throwing chairs around
the room or whatever.”

- Taking opposing routes

Each has found an opposite path to public popularity. Wyden is a
master at seizing popular issues -- whether they involve obscenity on the
Internet or the selling of shoddy insurance policies to seniors -- and
producing successful legislation.

DeFazio is quintessentially anti-establishment. He always votes against
foreign aid, turns back part of his salary every month and is a big
supporter of term limits.

Perhaps nowhere is the gap between them so huge -- and so important --
as it is on international wade. DeFazio is one of the Honse's most
vociferous opponents of free trade, while Wyden has consistently
supported legislation to lower trade barriers.

“Peter takes a very traditional liberal Democrat approach to assigning
blame -- it's the megacorporations, the international trade agreements, the
corporate greed,” said former Rep. Mike Kopetski, D-Ore. In contrast,
Kopetski said, Wyden talks more about boosting educational opportunities
to help the American worker.

“Ron,” said Oregon AFL-CIO President Irv Fletcher, “doesn't invoke
the class struggle very often, because Ron is going to work the business
interests."

- Sharply different outlooks

What the trade issue does expose are fundamentally different world views

bl60 PPLES

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2152