4/9/68
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08222213

CLINTON'S PICK IN TOBACCO: VOTES OR KIDS?
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, August 10, 1995

By: DAVID REINHARD - of The Oregonian staff

Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: C06
Word Count: 827

MEMO:
TYPE: Editorial Column

TEXT:

Nobody has ever accused Rep. Ron Wyden of being a patsy for the tobacco
companies. The Oregon Democrat has browbeaten them in congressional
hearings, and one company has returned the favor by taking him to court --
twice. Nor has anybody ever accused Wyden of failing to wring maximum
political gain out of thrashing Big Tobacco .

So when Wyden says he'd rather switch (and compromise) than fight the
tobacco folks over underage smoking, President Clinton should listen. The
3rd District congressman has crafted a results-oriented plan to curb tecn
smoking that is, well, presidential. Clinton, by contrast, is toying with
some grand political gestures that might not stop a single child from
lighting up.

Clinton is leaning toward two possible ways to limit minors’ access to
Cigarettes : (A) underage-smoking regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration or (B) a series of mandatory steps that could also be
included in an FDA regulation -- proof-of-age requirements, bans on vending
machines in places young people frequent and limits on cigarette
advertising geared to kids.

The details of any FDA regulation wouldn't be that important. The
precedent-setting assertion of FDA regulatory power over tobacco would
be. It would send the tobacco outfits into fits of apoplexy. FDA
regulation -- or even separate anti-leen-smoking rules -- would allow
Clinton to look tough against an industry that's as popular as the grim
reaper. No politician outside the tobacco belt ever lost votes running
against these merchants of death, and Clinton could look like the Marlboro
Man.

Emphasize “look like.” While the industry would go into apoplexy, it
would also go into fits of lobbying and litigation, As Wyden notes, the
industry could block FDA tobaccco regulations for years either in Congress
or the courts. Tough talk won't produce tough results -- or any results,
really. Clinton's Marlboro Man would have a candy cigarette between his
Icathery lips.

Wyden thinks the FDA has shown that nicotine has druglike effects and
that cigarettes are drug-delivery devices. But he's unconvinced the
government can make that case in court, And he knows from personal
experience that the tobacco companies are relentless in going to court.

RJR0000000141017986

70053 2164

9260 brLES