4/S/TT
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07833269

CONGRESSIONAL CRITICS TO TAKE ON SMOKELESS TOBACCO
Oregonian (PO) - TUESDAY, November 29, 1994

By: JIM BARNETT - of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: FOURTH Section: BUSINESS Page: C07

Word Count: 336

TEXT:
Summary: Lawmakers plan to continue fighting for federal regulation of the
product, which is growing in popularity

As tobacco -friendly Republicans prepare to take charge of Congress,
some of the industry's leading critics, including Ron Wyden , D-Ore., are
planning to fire a parting shot.

Last summer, Wyden emerged as a leading critic of cigarette makers
during hearings chaired by Rep. Henry A. Waxman, D-Calif. On Tuesday,
Waxman's subcommittee on health and the environment will hear testimony on
the dangers of smokeless tobacco .

In an interview, Wyden said health experts and professional athletes were
scheduled to testify. The Washington hearing, he said, was prompted in part
by a Wall Strect Journal report on new, sweet-tasting smokeless tobacco
products that encourage children as young as 9 to pick up the habit.

Although per-capita consumption of cigarettes has declined for years,
smokeless tobacco -- also called snuff -- is enjoying new popularity.
Snuff makers sell $1.1 billion worth of the finely ground tobacco per year.

When the new Congress meets in January, Waxman is expected to hand off
his subcommittee chairmanship to Thomas J. Bliley Jr, a Virginia
Republican whose district counts Philip Morris Cos. Inc., the nation’s No.

1 cigarette maker, as its biggest private employcr.

Bliley has said he would end hearings that could lead to Food and Drug
Administration regulation of tobacco . But Wyden said he hopes to build
bipartisan support for regulation that would keep children from taking up smoking.

“The control of Congress has changed, but the need to develop sensible
health policies to protect kids continues," Wyden said.

Tobacco is much like timber in the Northwest. It is an
agticulture-based industry that has supported high-paying factory jobs in
Virginia, North Carolina and Kentucky for decades. But in recent years, it
has been stymied by new regulations and sensibilities about the environment.

Ironically, Oregon's public employee retirement fund has a $485 million
investment in RJR Nabisco Holdings, the nation's No. 2 cigarette company
and maker of Winston and Camel brands.

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

€£60 Prles

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2171