4/9/62
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08250005

A CRUSADER FOR SMOKE-FREE YOUNGER SET
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, September 7, 1995

By: ANTJE SPETHMANN of The Oregonian staff
Edition: SUNRISE Section: WEST ZONER Page: 04
MEMO:

TYPE: Column

COLUMN: WINNERS

TEXT:
It all began with a hittle bit of tuck.

“Being born in the right year got me into the Smoke-free Class of
2000," said Sarah Weller, an eighth-grader at Poynter Junior High School in Hillsboro.

The American Cancer Society, American Heart Association and the American
Lung Association are sponsoring the 12-year education and awareness
campaign designed to create a smoke-free generation by the year 2000.

Weller has been getting the anti-smoking message all along. She believes
so strongly in eliminating smoking from young people's lives that she
refers to herself as an anti tobacco activist.

Weller won the right to attend the Smoke-free Class of 2000 conference
earlier this summer in Washington, D.C., based on a letter she wrote to
Oregon officials. She explained her feelings about tobacco and what she
thought was the biggest issue -- teen access. Two delegates were chosen
from cach statc, as well as Washington, D.C.

While in Washington, Weller spoke with members of Congress and helped
draft the Smoke-free Contract with America.

She met with Reps. Ron Wyden and Elizabeth Forse, both D-Ore. “It
went really well,” Weller said. *’ They are both really supportive of this
issue. They supported my views and that made it a lot easier.

“Some of the other delegates had problems with congressmen who actually
_ had packs of cigarettes and were chain smokers and they weren't very supportive.”

Since her return, Weller has been using the things she's learned to
become more active in her community. She has been traveling to convenience
stores and other places that sell cigarettes and documenting the readily
displayed advertising.

Weller says she intends to take the information she collects to
Washington County officials ~-and ask for stricter laws on advertising and
for someone to enforce them."

-- Antje Spethmann

CAPTION: PHOTO
Photo of SARAH WELLER

RJROO000007 41017986
70053 2154

9160 brles