Anti-tobacco activists told The New York Times that the Session of the
Cigarette Seven was a kcy moment in the change of atmospherc. Onc
political consultant related that when he showed a tape of the executives

to focus groups, it always drew “instant recognition and instant
laughter."

“People still come up to me,” recalls the now-Sen. Wyden , “and say,

‘Remember when you asked those executives that?’ And then they just roll
their eyes."

It's a sign of how bad things have gotten for the industry that the idea
of buying immunity for $300 billion actually sent tobacco stocks up.
Anti- tobacco forces are against the proposed deal, thinking it lets the
companies off too casily.

“T think people ought to remember how resilient this industry is,”
said Wyden this week. “I find it very hard to trust this crowd that told
me under oath thal nicotine wasn't addictive.”

The tobacco deal itself may or may not happen, and may be a bad idea.
For the cigarette industry, about to become the target of every public

and plaintiff's lawyer in the United States, immunity might be cheap at the
price -- or at any price.

But three years ago -- and certainly two years ago, when the industry
considered its new command of Congress to be unfiltered -- nobody expected
them to be putting $300 billion on the table. And nobody thought that the
tobacco industry, after years of pitched battle with Food and Drug
commissioner David Kessler, would be offering to accept some form of Food
and Drug Administration control.

Still, Wyden ‘s in no hurry to accept the deal, which would have to
move through Congress.

“After all the years of fighting this industry," says the smoke-free
senator, “of having Brown & Williamson and Ken Starr sue Henry Waxman and
me, you don't fight all that to have an agreement like this go through here
like grease through a goose."

Wyden wants to make sure that any tobacco compact is carefully
considered by Congress. In fact, he likes the idea of a public hearing.

He and Waxman probably still have the posters.

Copyright (c) 1997, The Oregonian Publishing Company

ogeo prises

RJRO0000001 41017886
70053 2118