Clinton will accept resolution on Mexico

President Clinton notified Congress on Thursday that he intends to abide
by a Senate resolution that requires close monitoring of Mexican and U.S.
efforts to fight illicit drugs.

The Senate overwhelmingly passed the resolution in March as a compromise
after congressional opponents threatened to block Clinton's certification
of Mexico as fully cooperative in the battle against drogs.

The resolution is pending in the House. But Clinton, in letters to Sen.
Paul Coverdell, R-Ga., and Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., said he intends
to abide by the provision of the Senate resolution.

The resolution requires Clinton to report back to Congress by Sept. 1 on
joint U.S.-Mexican progress in dismantling drug cartels, strengthening
border patrols, improving cooperation among law enforcement agencies,
implementing Mexican laws to combat money laundering, eradicating illegal
crops, prosecuting corrupt officials, and bolstering air and sea
interdictions.

CAPITAL UPDATE

A year after the fiery ValuJet crash in the Florida Everglades that
killed all 110 aboard, the government does not require smoke detectors in
all airline cargo compartments. Rep. John Duncan, R-Tenn., chairman of the
House transportation aviation subcommittee, called the delay pathetic.
“The FAA has now decided that smoke detectors and fire-suppression systems
should be placed in cargo holds," Duncan said Thursday. “But. . . they
have not actually issued the rule or even a proposed rule. 1 would say that
airline passengers have no more protection from cargo fires than they had a
year ago, before the ValuJet accident."

The Clinton administration should consider freezing Swiss assets in the
United States if Switzerland doesn't return all the looted Nazi gold it
accepted during World War II, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y., said Thursday.
But the U.S. diplomat who led a study harshly critical of Switzerland's
banking with Nazi Germany said it was premature to think about taking such
a drastic measure. He urged Congress to broaden its inquiry to include U.S.
banks’ handling of wartime gold and Jewish accounts. The U.S. report,
issued last week, accused Switzerland and other neutral nations of
prolonging the war by accepting $580 million in gold that the Nazis looted
from central banks. It also criticized U.S. negotiators for accepting the
return of only $58 million of $400 million in looted gold from Switzerland.

CAPTION:
PHOTO

Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Copyright (c) 1997, The Oregonian Publishing Company

8280 prlEes

RJR0000000141017986
76053 2116