be made available to other federal public health agencies and by request to
members of Congress who have jurisdiction over tobacco -related issues.

Even for members of Congress, getting access to the list can be a
harrowing ordeal. One House office that has the list spent nearly three
months trying to get a copy.

It began with a simple letter of request to the Department of Health and
Human Services. By law, the government must then inform the lawyers for the
tobacco companies that someone has requested the list. Tobacco company
lawyers then apparently contacted their friends on Capitol Hill, for the
inquiring office was soon contacted by tobacco -friendly lawmakers asking
about their intentions.

“The linkage in this process is set up to make sure the industry has
all the knowledge and the consumer has very little,” a source involved in
the process told our associates Andrew Conte and Jan Moller.

Eventually this member of Congress was asked by department officials to
sign a “nondisclosure statement" before being given the list. Although
the member refused to sign, the list was eventually handed over.

So what exactly is it that the tobacco companies don't want us to
know? According to sources who have seen the list, the 700 ingredients
range from harmless additives found in everyday foods to hazardous
materials regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency.

According to Wyden and others, at least 13 of the ingredients, which
include pesticides, fungicides and insecticides, are already banned by the
Food and Drag Administration in the food we eat. Five of the listed
ingredients arc banned by the EPA from being dumped into landfills.

The looming battle over disclosure of the list comes at an unfortunate
time for the domestic tobacco industry. Along with a wave of new
restrictions on smoking in public places, tobacco interests will fight
for their lives this fall to avoid increased taxes on cigarettes that
would be used 10 pay for health care reform,

But Wyden predicts the companies will fight the disclosure even more.
“Taxes on cigarettes are on the consumer. They know there's going to be
a higher tax," Wyden says. ““I think they're very worried about
(disclosure) because it strips the veil of secrecy and goes right to the
heart of what they've been trying to do all these years."

Copyright1994, United Feature Syndicate Inc.
Jack Anderson and Michael Binstein write the syndicated column
“Washington Merry Go Round."

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

e860 PrlEes

RJRO00000001 41017986

POOSS 2221