4/9/57
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Pordand)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08314039

PORTLANDER SUCCEEDS BY NOT LOSING SIGHT OF WHAT PEOPLE WANT
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, November 10, 1995

By: JEFF MAPES of The Oregonian staff

Edition; SUNRISE Section: LOCAL STORIES Page: A3!

MEMO:

TYPE: Biography Profile

SERIES; Series - U.S. Senate Campaign Ron Wyden: A Profile (Sth of 5
parts)

TEXT:
When Rep. Ron Wyden hired an aide to work on health issues for him, this
was one of his directives: Start paying attention to Reader's Digest.

Wyden made it clear that it would not be enough for the aide, Karen
Kaplan, to pore over medical journals and government reports. He also
wanted to make sure that everything he did was relevant to the average
person flipping through the magazines in the supermarket checkout aisle.

It is a formula that has made the Democratic congressman from Portland a
familiar fixture in the local news and the bearer of a seemingly infinite
number of consumer causes back on Capitol Hill.

“He has," says Kaplan, who now works for a New York nonprofit group,
“an uncanny sense of what is going to fly and what isn't.”

Critics complain that Wyden is a relentless self-promoter who ducks
the tough issues. But his approach nevertheless has made the 15-year House
veteran politically unassailable in his district. And now he's testing that
popularity by running for the U.S. Senate seat left open by the resignation
of Republican Bob Packwood.

-- Candidate fits right in

Ron Wyden is in his element as senior citizens gather in Southeast
Portland for the daily lunch served by Loaves and Fishes voluntecrs. He has
been sharing meals like this with the elderly since he was in his 20s and
was co-director of the Gray Panthers in Oregon.

His hair is thinner now, but at 46 he's as lanky as ever and his voice
still carries the same nasal earnestness. He poses for pictures, offers
hugs and warm shoulder clasps and Hstens carefully as several people
describe their medical and financial problems. The affection flowing
between Wyden and his constituents is palpable. It's easy to imagine him
as the good son they never had.

“He's always on the human side," says Robert Stottlemyer, a disabled
retiree who warmly greets Wyden at the lunch. “He doesn't get involved
in forcign aid and al] that stuff. He only works on things to directly help
people on the street."

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2144

9060 Prles