always effective -- to constituents outside his urban, Democratic base.

Add the fact that no clear Republican challenger has emerged, and some
Republican leaders think Wyden should have an casy time -- a slam dunk,
according to one -- winning re-election.

Oregon volers haven't turned out an incumbent senator since 1968, when
they ousted Wayne Morse, one of Wyden 's political heroes, in favor of
Packwood. But they have come close: In 1990, retired Sen. Mark O. Hatfield
got a scare from Democrat Harry Lonsdale, who had been a political unknown
the year before.

“I never use the word slam dunk in politics," Portland pollster Tim
Hibbitis said. “This guy is not Mark Hatfield, who literally could brush
aside his opposition.”

- Moving to the middlc

In an interview in his Washington office, Wyden was reluctant 10 say
that he's grown into his new job. But he appears to be working hard to
overcome his reputation as an urban liberal, Moderation, observers say, is
Wyden ‘s key to re-election.

“He is acting a bit more moderatc than was the expectation of him in
the House of Representatives,” said James Thurber, an American University
government professor who grew up in Albany. “He has to be perceived as a
player in the middle.”

The ultimate test of Wyden ‘s moderation probably will be federal land
management, an issue thal polarizes urban and rural Oregonians. City
dwellers may want to preserve Oregon's forests and rivers, but rural
residents depend on them for their livelihood.

In the House, Wyden could focus safely on consumer issues, including
crusades against tobacco and pharmaceutical companies. But as a member of
the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Wyden eventually must
stare down the land-management issue.

So far this year, the committee hasn't held a gut-check vote. When asked
how he'll decide the fate of Western wilderness, Wyden sprints for middle
ground,

“We're in a special part of the planet, and we want to protect these
treasures,” he said. “We've got to figure out a way to do it in a fashion
that's still sensitive to people and to communitics."

- Reaching out
Wyden has made a point of reaching into timber country. He has opened
six state offices across Oregon, and staff members get good marks for

building contacts with community leaders, especially in smaller cities.

Half of Wyden ‘s state offices, in fact, are in the 5th District --
staunchly Republican territory, where voters supported Sen. Gordon Smith in

2880 PrLESs

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2120