4/9144
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

08582316

TOBACCO CEOS' SMOKE SCREEN IS LIFTING
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, March 22, 1996

By: DAVID SARASORN - of The Oregonian staff
Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: B08
Word Count: 782

MEMO:
TYPE: Editorial Column

TEXT:

One after the other, while a huge, jammed-to-the-walls House of
Representatives hearing room listened closely, then-Rep. Ron Wyden asked
each of the top executives of the seven major American tobacco companies
the same question.

The inquiry was a whole new version of chain smoking.

One after the other, each was asked whether cigarettes and nicotine were
addictive.

And one after the other, under oath, before God and CNN, responded that
certainly they weren't -- and they were rather surprised anybody would ask.
One of them compared a cigarette habit to a taste for Twinkies, and
another solemnly pointed out that nicotine was also present in tomatoes and
eggplant -- illustrating why it's so tough to kick V-8.

Manipulating nicotine levels to affect impact? Never touch the stuff.

But since that hearing in April 1994, a few things have changed. Despite
a blaze of tobacco company lawyers and lawsuits, former industry
executives and scientists keep revealing that, of course, they were messing
with nicotine levels, and, of course, they knew exactly why.

Most recently, according to The Wall Street Journal, former Philip
Morris scientist Ian Uydess reveals that scientists there concluded that
nicotine “was the critical component of tobacco that compelled
(motivated) people to smoke," and that the company “routinely targeted
and adjusted" nicotine levels for marketing purposes. The main attraction,
he says, was “the (physiologic) effect nicotine had upon a person."

No mention there about the parallel with Twinkies.

“To have all these documents out of their own files has been a huge
development,” said Wyden on Wednesday. “The tobacco executives were
much more candid with each other than they were with the Congress and the
American people."

To anyone who saw the hearings two years ago -- and not only was the
room jammed, but CNN and C-Span carried it all live, and the seven
executives starred on that night's network news -- subsequent developments
raise some interesting questions, which might have interesting answers.

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2130

 

Z680 brles