Such a mecting, of coursc, would reveal an inclusive organized effort
that the Clinton plan has lacked from Day 1.

When government doesn't have the money to pay for universal health carc
-- and it doesn't -- it must put the squeeze on the providers. Even those
providers on the side of the angels are easy targets when the demonizers
get cranked up.

“They haven't hit the hospitals yet," Moir said. “If you look where
the health-care dollar goes, you can pick out who the demons are: Hospitals
and surgeons are always No. ] and No. 2."

The flaw in this approach? “The health care industry is an ecosystem,"
Moir said. ““It is incredibly complex and interwoven. It's an ecosystem
that needs change. It is overpriced. But if you try to tweak it, you never
know what's going to happen to it."

Oregonians have reason to ask if this demonizing had to happen; it
wasn't required to pass the Oregon Health Plan.

From the beginning, John Kitzhaber had a seat for everyone at the table.
They were glued to that seat by a concise policy stalement, an agreement on
the means of reaching their goal and the realization that everyone's
long-term interests were served by finishing the job.

“The process that took place in Washington was different," said Mark
Gibson, who sat at Kitzhaber's right hand during the debate over the Oregon
plan. The Clinton plan was concocted by ~“a massive convening of health
care experts that was exclusive of many of the interest groups."

When the padlock was finally taken off the final product, the lobbyists
lore through it. “In classic Washington politics, all the interest groups
went straight to the part they didn't like," Gibson said. “They were able
to focus on their little piece of the action, with no accountabily that the
whole bill is crashing down.

“At that point, you have to fall back. That's when the scapegoating
begins."

Gibson doesn't hold out much hope that the scapegoating will end.
Clinton has lost control of his plan in a political realm where everyone is
focused on political survival, not solving the problem.

Because far too few were invested in the original plan, far too few are
accountable for seeing it survive. The real demons in Clinton's health care
nightmare are his pride and his neglect.

Steve Duin’s column appears Tuesdays, Thursdays and Sundays. He can be
reached by telephone at 221-8597, by FAX at 227-5306, or by mail at 1320
S.W. Broadway, Portland 97201,

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

9760 PrLEeS

RJROO000001 41017986
70053 2184