419/73
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

08106093

HOT TOPICS KATZ STILL KNOWS HOW TO FLING A

Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, April 16, 1995

By: JAMES MAYER - of The Oregonian staff JANET FILIPS - of The Oregonian
staff The Associated Press

Edition: FOURTH Section: GRAPHICS Page: D10

Word Count: 1,009

MEMO:
TYPE: Column Oregon
COLUMN: In Public Life

TEXT:
HOT TOPICS Katz still knows how to fling a New York putdown

Portiand Mayor Vera Katz, a former New Yorker who has hardly mellowed an
iota since escaping the Big Apple 30 years ago, got a chance this week to
trade some lip with New York Mayor Rudolph Rudi" Giuliani, thanks to
David Letterman and the New York Daily News,

It started as another stunt on NBC's “Late Show With David Letterman."
Giuliani was a guest Wednesday, and Letterman had him choose a new slogan
for the city from among four possibilities. The mayor picked “We Can Kick
Your City's Ass."

He also liked “It's Rudi-riffic."

The Daily News picked up the slogan and ran with it, hitting the streets
the next day with buttons and bumper stickers featuring the new slogan.

A reporter called mayors from what the tabloid newspaper called the
country’s “lesser” cities for reaction.

Quoting now from Friday's Daily News:

* “Kiss our balanced budget" snapped Portland, Ore., Mayor Vera Katz,
who apparently has a bad case of little-town blues. Katz is from Brooklyn,
but for some reason left to live in a rain-drenched city.”

Katz. aide Sam Adams said the mayor was referring to Portland's financial
health compared to the sorry slate of New York's budgets in recent years,

“She wanted to hit back where it hurts," Adams said,

On Friday night, Letterman revisited the stunt and read the quotes from
the Daily News, commenting that Portland enjoyed 360 days of rainfall
annually. -- James Mayer

Legislation would allow prescription narcotics for pain

Doctors who treat patients suffering from unremitting pain would have
more leeway in prescribing narcotics if Senate Bill 671 makes its way into

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2168

 

O€60 PrLES