“Our work is still to convince young people on their terms why they
should choose something other than smoking," he said.

Others will be using the Liggett action to move the debate over smoking
in other venues. Here is a look at how some may be affected: COURTS The
state altorneys general seem to be building a powerful case against the
industry, at least in terms of showing that its executives lied about their
knowledge of tobacco 's dangers.

Richard Daynard, chairman of the Tobacco Products Liability Project in
Boston, said, ~“I think it blows their defenses out of the water . . . to
have someone who was in there conspiring with them saying, “Yes we knew it,
we knew ita long time ago, we did our darndest to make sure that Congress
did nothing to protect the public.”

The Liggett settlement probably will not have a substantial impact on
lawsuits by individual smokers, since the industry can argue that smokers
were informed of tobacco 's risks, yet chose to smoke.

The FDA case to regulate tobacco , currently being heard by a federal
district court in Greensboro, N.C., may not be much affected: Watchers say
that entering additional Jegal material in the case may be difficult.
GOVERNMENT

For tobacco foes in Congress, the settlement was an important
psychological victory. But it doesn't change the fact that tobacco 's
allics are in power. The industry gives heavily to the Republican majority.

New, high-profile hearings into industry practices appear unlikely.

“Thave been saying for a long time now that this is a matter that will
be decided in the courts and not in Congress," said House Commerce
Committee Chairman Thomas Bliley, R-Va., whose panel has jurisdiction over
the industry.

However, a decision in the North Carolina court case could set off a
rush to legislation later this year. Whichever way the decision goes,
allies and foes of tobacco may take the regulation battle to Congress.

In a related issue, tobacco foes and children's advocates are
exploring a coalition to push a bipartisan Senate bill that would expand
health insurance coverage for children, paid for by higher cigarette
taxes. Liggett's admission that it aimed advertising at teen-agers may help
sell the bill.

“It makes the case for our bill stronger," said Sen. Orrin Hatch,
R-Utah, a co-author. “There are 10 million uninsured children, and if
they're among the poorest of the poor, a good many of them are going to
wind up smoking."

The tobacco industry will fight any effort to expand regulation or
raise taxes.

Tobacco companies gave $6.8 million in unregulated ‘soft money"
donations to major party organizations in the last election, with 85
percent of that going to Republicans, according to the nonpartisan Center
for Responsive Politics.

2880 brlEes

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2125