4/9/82
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian, All rts. reserv.

07706087

WYDEN, A SOUND BITE MASTER, HOLDS TONGUE ON REFORM
Oregonian (PO) - MONDAY, July 25, 1994

By: DON HAMILTON - of the Oregonian Staff

Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: AO]

MEMO:
TYPE: Biography Profile

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: Ralph Nader wishes Portland's congressman had guts,
but others say his health efforts go beyond press releases

Ron Wyden was indignant. He also was moralistic, brusque, anguished
and angry.

And he was live on television.

Ten yards away in the congressional commitice room witness chair sat Thomas
E. Sandefur Jr. of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Co.

The Oregon Democrat zeroed in on the executive, a symbol of a great
contemporary American villain -- the tobacco industry. Wyden sternly
pulled the full range of congressional levers, evoking decency, common folk
and striking a blow for the public good.

Then he hit,

“You have your hands on the controls of an addiction machine,” Wyden
scolded. ““It sure looks to me like you're in the drug-making business.”

Ron Wyden had done it again -- found a starring role in a highly
publicized national health drama. He has landed on front pages and network
TV shows over sometimes quirky issues such as diets and cosmetic surgery.
He is, one lobbyist said, the king of the tabloid health care issues.

But after the cameras go away and the headlines fade, a nagging question
remains: In the health care arena, has Wyden made a big difference or a
big noise?

The answer depends on who's doing the talking. But al times, he's done
both.

~~ Wyden has gone for the sizzle, for the things that are flamboyant,
that get him local and national exposure," said Russell A. Dondero,
professor of political science at Pacific University. “But you measure
effectiveness not on speeches on the House floor or how many time you're on
Oprah or how many times you're quoted in The Oregonian. It's done by the
respect in which someone is held by their peers."

Wyden earns high marks from peers who see him as a hard worker who
knows the issues and is a leading congressional expert on the mercilessly
complex Medicare and Medicaid systems.

RJR00000001 41017986
70053 2173

Se60 prLEes