Some Amcrican Broadcasting Company.

Earlier this year, ABC -- in the face of a $10 billion Jawsuit by Philip
Morris -- backed off and apologized for an error in a “Day Onc" story
about tobacco companies’ controlling the level of nicotine in cigarettes
. The story argued -- and nobody disputes -- that tobacco companies
manipulate the level of nicotine in cigarettes , taking it out early in
the process and adding some amount of it back in later. It was wrong in
saying that the nicotine added later came from someplace else, and not the
original tobacco .

ABC's lawyers were confident of winning, but the network instead issued
what the latest issue of the Columbia Journalism Review calls “the
Infamous Apology." ABC backed way off, and Philip Morris ran large, smug
ads in newspapers boasting, “Apology Accepted."

Nobody at Philip Morris or ABC was talking rnuch about the story's 1972
quote from a Philip Morris scientist calling a cigarette ~“a dispenser
for a dose unit of nicotine.”

But, as Mike Wallace conceded recently, everybody at ““60 Minutes" and
CBS was aware of the ABC precedent: that in dealing with an aggressive,
deep-pocketed tobacco company, it may just be easier for a network to
kick the journalism habit.

And networks aren't the only people who have given up smoking
investigations. The high point of the reduced “60 Minutes" story was a
tape of the CEOs of the top seven U.S. tobacco companies swearing to the
House Commerce Committee that of course nicotine wasn't addictive.

These days, with a GOP-controlled Commerce Committee chaired by Rep.
Thomas Bliley of Richmond, Va., they'd never be asked such an awkward
question. In fact, congressional interest in smoking has just been stubbed
oul, including investigations of scientific evidence and corporate secrets.

“The committee was compiling information that the companics knew full
well the health dangers of their product, the addictiveness of their
product, and that kids were going to smoke their product,” says Josh
Kardon, aide to Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore. “Now the Republicans have those
documents, and I'm sure they're well-filed."

Tobacco companies have invested in these gains; their contributions to
political parties have risen 400 percent this year, with 90 percent -- $1.5
million -- going to Republicans. Political contributions can be as
profitable as legal expenditures.

And if neither networks nor Congress are looking into nicotine, probably
the issue just vanishes in a puff of smoke.

“The same subcommittce" that used to work on smoking, says Kardon,
“has held a series of hearings on how best to dismantle the clean air acts."

Suddenly, the air is full of various kinds of burning leaves.

And lots of funny smells.
David Sarasohn is an associate editor of The Oregonian. He can be

RJRO0000001 41017986

70053 2142

$060 PrlLes