What's covered: All services prioritized and provided on basis of need
and effectiveness. Generally includes rimary and preventive care, prenatal
care, prescription drugs, licensed alternative care such as chiropractors,
family planning including abortion, substantial long-term care and some
ear, eye and dental. Mental health treatment, such as counseling, rnonitored
by gatekeeper.

Who's covered: All U.S. citizens by, at the latest, 2000.

Who pays: Individuals pay health care premiums, deductibles and
co-payments on sliding scale based on ability to pay. Government continues
to provide states with Medicare and Medicaid money for poor and elderly. If
additional money is needed, corporations and individuals may be taxed on
progressive scale.

How it works; Congress mandates a minimum benefits package. The states
devise their own plans for providing those benefits to all residents. A
state may convert Medicaid, Medicare and all other government health
funding to its own system as long as il provides poor and elderly with as
good or better benefits than they now receive.

How it controls costs: Focuses on preventive care and encourages
arbitration in malpractice suits. All plans must charge residents within a
community the same basic rate and may no longer refuse to cover
pre-existing conditions. Drug companies must offer all bulk purchasers the
same price and may not charge substantially more for drugs in the United
States than they charge abroad. Insurance companies barred from
price-fixing premiums or payments to providers.

Oregon plan: National plan would mirror Oregon's plan and allow it to
move ahead.

Special concern: Wants alternative care such as the services of
chiropractors and midwives included in basic benefits package.

REP. JOLENE UNSOELD, DEM.

She is a co-sponsor of the president's bill, but supports the plan as
revised by the House Education and Labor Committee Subcommittee on
Labor-Management Relations, on which she serves. The subcommittee’s bill
offers a more generous package of health benefits than the president's plan
and envisions health care this way:

What's covered: Primary and preventive care, prenatal care,
prescriptions including drugs for elderly on Medicare, family planning
including abortion, comprehensive mental health, preventive and emergency
dental care. Routine ear and eye exams for adults; full services, including
eyeglasses, for children. Limited long- term care. Additional coverage can
be purchased. .

Who's covered: All U.S. citizens and legal residents, by 1998
Who pays: Employers pay 80 percent of premiums for full-time workers.

Prorated for part-timers, No business pays more than 7.9 percent of payroll
for health care, and low-wage businesses with fewer than 75 employees pay

RJR00000001 41017986

7OO5S 2190

 

zg60 prles