419/2
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts, reserv.

09505019

EXPORTING DEATH STILL

Oregonian (PO) - Monday, January 5, 1998

By: G. James Patterson

Edition: SUNRISE Section: EDITORIAL Page: B09
TYPE: Column

COLUMN: Reader Forum

1 N

CLUJ-NAPOCA, Romania - Surmary:
U.S. government helps companies sell cigarettes to Romanians

There is a conviction that it is Western, glarnorous and American to
smoke, Meanwhile, the life expectancy of Romanians -- already one of the
shortest in Europe -- is decreasing.

Nearly two years ago in this paper I reported on the advertizing blitzes
and media campaigns of American cigaretle companies here (“Welcome to
Marlboro Country: the new Transylvania”, Jan. 25, 1996.)

Interest was expressed by a number of readers, including Sens. Gordon
Smith and Ron Wyden . I suppose I naively hoped some congressional action
would result, cutting back government support for the tobacco industry
overseas. After all, wasn't President Clinton encouraging initiatives to
decrease smoking, especially among youth?

Whatever Congress or the White House may or may not have done, our
tobacco companies’ efforts in Eastern Europe and Romania have reached
phenomenal proportions, and more and more people -- especially the young --

are smoking more than ever before.

We have here a public health epidemic. There is virtually no education
about the dangers of smoking: Even the doctors smoke.

There is a conviction that itis Western, glamorous and American to
smoke, Meanwhile, the life expectancy of Romanians -- already one of the
shortest in Europe -- is decreasing.

We live in Cluj, the beautiful Baroque capital of Transylvania. A
20-minute walk through the center of town revealed the following:

In front of the 14th century Gothic St. Michael's Church is a Winston
billboard, showing an eagle soaring above the New York skyline, with the
slogan ~The Taste of Freedom.”

Behind the church, in a city park beside a statue of Hungarian Prince
Matthew Corvin, Camel has erected a big safari tent where free cigarettes
are offered to all.

In front of the tent are two Range Rover 4x4s with French plates but

RJRO0000001 41017986

70053 2102

’980 PrLEeS