Since then, Wyden has battled doctors to pass a bill creating a
national data bank of physicians who have had legal and regulatory
judgments against them. He also has taken on insurance, pharmaceutical and
tobacco companies. And he was willing to step into the middle of the
abortion issue by pushing for trials to test RU-486, the abortion drug.

-- Getting along

At the same time, though, Wyden has always worked comfortably with the
establishment. He has stayed on good terms with the congressional
leadership. “When he’s in a battle," says his friend Rep. Sam Gejdenson,
D-Conn., “he doesn’t make enemies.”

Even when the Republicans took over the House last year, Wyden didn't
spend much time grumbling. ¢ redoubled his efforts to find issues that
could attract Republican support, such as his recent amendment opposing
government censorship on the Internet.

The stacks of reading material on his desk and his long work hours lead
friends to say he's lost none of his energy and zeal for the job.

“Ron doesn't relax very much," says former aide Lois Davis, “He's not
a guy who does a Jot of leisurely type activities.”

In Oregon, Wyden has helped several local businesses on customs issues
-- which fall under the jurisdiction of the Commerce Committee -- and has
steadfastly supported the free-trade policies that enjoy wide support in
Oregon's business community. He also has departed from liberal Democratic
orthodoxy by backing a cut in the capital gains tax.

All this has cost him the support of some of his old allies, most
notably consumer advocate Ralph Nader, who has harshly accused Wyden of
cozying up to corporate interests and the new Republican majority.

Still, Wyden continues to have a generally pro-union voting record and
almost always votes on the side of the environmental community. He began
his congressional career by opposing the Reagan tax and budget cuts, and he .
has been just as critical of the GOP's attempts to cut government programs
and regulations this year.

Wyden says he takes hits from many activists because he's more of a
pragmatist than an ideologue. “I'm hard to label, like most Oregonians,"
he says. For years, he adds, he has tried to push the Democratic Party to
move beyond simply supporting Great Society-style government programs.

Friends say it is this practicality that has always placed Wyden in
good stead, ,

“He has," says Gary Conkling, a close friend and Wyden ‘s first chief
of staff, ‘a mind not for the grand idea, but for the idea that works."

-- Jeff Mapes covers politics and voters for The Oregonian. He can be
reached by phone at 221-8209, by mail at 1320 8,W. Broadway, Portland, Ore.
97201, or by e-mail at jeffmapes @news.oregonian.com,

6060 vrleS

RJROO00000141017986

70053 2147