4/9196
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07658131

SUBPOENA OF WYDEN QUASHED

Oregonian (PO) - TUESDAY, June 7, 1994

By: ROSE ELLEN O'CONNOR - of the Oregonian Staff
Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A09

MEMO:
CORRECTION: PUBLISHED CORRECTION RAN: 6/8/94

The summary to a story about the quashing of subpoenas for Reps. Ron
Wyden , D-Ore., and Henry Waxman, D-Calif., misstated the effect. The
court's action lifted the order for the legislators to give the Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp. documents indicating the company knew years ago
about the dangers of cigarette smoking.

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: A federal judge's order requires the Oregon
legislator and one from California to give up tobacco -company documents

A federal judge threw out a Kentucky court's subpoena of leading
congressional smoking foes Ron Wyden and Henry Waxman on Monday,
comparing the subpoena to judicial efforis to suppress the civil rights
movement.

U.S. District Judge Harold H, Greene blasted a Jefferson County, Ky.,
judge for parochialism and accused Brown & Williamson of trying to
intimidate a whistleblower and confuse the public.

Constitutional doctrines ...," Greene wrote, “stand in the way of so
highhanded a course of conduct, and one so patently crafted to harass those
who would reveal facts concerning B & W's knowledge of the health hazards
inherent in tobacco ."

Al issue are internal company memos and other papers indicating that
Brown and Williamson executives knew 31 years ago that smoking is dangerous
and nicotine is addictive. Wyden , D-Ore., who serves on a House
subcommittec on health, obtained the documents earlier this year and turned
them over to Waxman, D-Calif., who heads the committee.

Brown and Williamson contend that the documents were stolen by a
disgruntled paralegal at their law firm, Last month, Jefferson County Court
Judge Thomas Wine ordered Wyden and Waxman to let company executives see
the documents to help them determine whether they came from the paralegal.
Wyden and Waxman are heading a congressional investigation into the
tobacco ‘s industry's knowledge of smoking hazards and are weighing
further regulation of smoking products.

“It would be difficult to find orders that more directly impede the
official responsibilities of the Congress," Greene said.

He also questioned whether the documents are **stolen goods," as the
tobacco company contends,

9S60 prLEs

RJRO0000001 41017986
76053 2194