4/9/97
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07655070

WYDEN FIGHTS IN COURT

Oregonian (PO) - SATURDAY, June 4, 1994

By: ROSE ELLEN O'CONNOR of The Oregonian staff
Edition: FOURTH Section: GRAPHICS Page: Al4

MEMO:
TYPE: Column
COLUMN: CAPITAL DIARY

TEXT:

WASHINGTON - A federal judge didn't seem to think much of arguments
presented Friday on behalf Oregon Rep. Ron Wyden and California Rep.
Henry Waxman, who are fighting a subpoena from the country's third-largest
tobacco company.

But U.S. District Judge Harold Greene, who said he'll decide the case
early next week, showed equal annoyance with lawyers for Brown & Williamson
Tobacco Corp. during a 90-minute hearing.
There’s no jury here,” Greene interjected during a lengthy specch from a
Brown & Williamson lawyer, “Just give me the facts."

Al issue are internal company documents indicating that Brown &
Williamson executives knew 30 years ago that smoking is dangerous and
nicotine addictive. Wyden , a leading Capitol Hill smoking foc, received
the documents earlier this year and gave copies to Waxman, who is chairman
of a House subcommittee on health, on which Wyden also serves.

Company lawyers say the documents were stolen by a disgruntled paralegal
and that they want the copies to prove it. Congressional lawyers for the
two Democrats argued that forcing them to let the company see the documents
would scare away potential sources in an investigation of the tobacco
company and have a chilling effect on the congressman as well.

“Are they that fragile that if someone subpoenas them they'll fall
apart?" Greene asked. “It doesn't seem terribly convincing, at least not
to me."

Wyden dismissed the subpoenas as a stalling tactic by company
executives, who the committee wants to question about the documents.

“They want time to develop explanations and pseudo scicncc," Wyden
said. -- Rose Ellen O'Connor

Copyright (c) 1994, The Oregonian Publishing Company

RJRO0000001 41017986

7OOS3 2196

 

gg60 vvtes