4/9/109
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts, reserv.

07619199

WORK ON NICOTINE SUBSTITUTE RELATED
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, April 29, 1994

By: BOB GEIGER - Knight-Ridder News Service
Edition: FOURTH Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A13
Word Count: 601

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: A witness tells Congress how Philip Morris reacted to
health concerns about tobacco by seeking a chemical alternative

Philip Morris, the tobacco giant that says it does not manipulate
nicotine in its cigarettes , once tried to discover a substitute chemical
that could mimic nicotine’s druglike effects and keep smokers coming back
for more.

Victor DeNoble, who worked on the research project for the company, told
a House subcommittee Thursday that the u)timate goal of the project was to
lake the nicotine out of the tobacco and replace it with a substitute
that would not have harmful effects on the heart.
Thursday's hearing before the House subcommittee on health and the
environment also focused on Philip Morris’ cloak-and-dagger attempts to
keep the details of the research secret -- from bringing research animals
into the laboratory under cover of darkness to threatening lawsuits if
research findings were published,

A 1980 internal Philip Morris memo -- stamped *Confidential" --
explains why the company wanted to pursue a substitute for nicotine.

Philip Morris scientist J.L. Charles wrote that “Nicotine is a powerful
pharmacological agent . . . and may be the most important component of
cigarette smoke."

“Nicotine is known to have effects on the central and peripheral
nervous system as well as influencing memory, learning, pain perception,
response to siress and level of arousal,” he said.

“The nicotine program . . . is justified in my view as a defensive
response to the anti-smoking forces’ criticisms of nicotine,” he wrote.

Anti-smoking critics were contending at the time that nicotine had
harmful effects on the cardiovascular system, caused chest pains in some
smokers and increased the risk of heart disease.

William Campbell, Philip Morris’ president and chief executive officer,
testified under oath carlicr this month that DeNoble’s work was part of an
effort to find a nicotine substitute that could keep people coming back for
more, just the way nicotine does.

DeNoble said Thursday that company researchers found some synthetic
chemicals similar to nicotine that could have been used as substitutes for

RJRO000000141017986

70053 2202

~960 PbrLES