and the Defense Department banned smoking in workplaces on military bases
and ships around the world.

Meantime, Congress approved and President Clinton signed a law that
prohibits smoking in schools and in Head Start and community health
centers, and the House approved a measure requiring that all schools that
receive federal drug-prevention money teach students the dangers of
tobacco .

Kessler said that if it could be shown that the companics manipulated
the amount of nicotine in cigarettes to satisfy smokers’ addiction, then
the agency would have no choice but to regulate cigarettes as a drug.

As a legal matter, that would probably mean banning tobacco products.
And since neither Kessler nor lawmakers believe that would be a wisc
course, he asked Congress for legislation that would define how he should
proceed,

Top FDA officials said last week they would eventually act unilaterally
if Congress did not deal decisively with smoking, but they said no such
steps were contemplated this year.

Synar and Rep. Richard J. Durbin, D-Ill, have imtroduced legislation
that would explicitly give the Food and Drug Administration jurisdiction
over tobacco but label it as neither a food nor a drug. The bill would
prohibit the agency from banning tobacco but would permit the regulation
of manufacturing, advertising, labeling, distribution and sales of
products.

The bill is not likely to become law this year, in part because the
congressional committees with jurisdiction are lied up with other matters,
such as President Clinton's proposed reforms of the nation's health-care
system. But the Synar-Durbin bill could be the direction Congress will
follow eventually, legislators said,

- Smaller moves under consideration

Other more modest measures stand a somewhat better chance of passage. A
higher federal tax on tobacco products has such broad support in Congress
to raise money for more widespread health-care coverage that the only
remaining question is how high the new tax will be.

President Clinton proposed increasing the tax, now 24 cents on a pack of
cigarettes, by 75 cents. A House subcommittee voted last month to raise
it by $1.25. And some in Congress are considering a tax of $2 a pack or
more. The prevailing view is that a higher tax might curtail smoking in the
long run, but for the short term, it is seen mainly as a source of revenue.

Another bill under consideration would ban smoking in virtually all
buildings except private homes. Its sponsor, Rep. Henry A. Waxman,
D-Calif., canceled subcommittee votes twice last month when he realized
that the panct would not approve the measure. But his office said he
planned to bring it up again this week and believed he had the votes.

The subcommillee seems to be the biggest obstacle to this bill in the
House, and if Waxman can win there, he probably will succeed in winning

RJRO0000000141017986
70053 2209

 

1260 PPLES