lower rates. Companies with 1,000 employees self-insure and pay a 1 percent
payroll tax. Individuals pay no more than 20 percent of premium or 3.9
percent of salary for basic coverage. The government subsidizes low-wage
small businesses and the poor and unemployed. The states continue to pay an
amount equal to what they now pay for Medicaid. Smokers pay a
75-cent-per-pack tax on cigarettes .

How it works: States collect premiums from individuals and employers and
provide consumer information. They may set up local alliances to oversee
collection and negotiate for best plans. Individuals including poor and
unemployed choose their own plans from a variety offered, including at
least one fee-for-service plan. A national board updates benefits package
and sets minimum standards for care.

How il controls costs: Insurance premium increases and Medicaid growth
are capped. The government may also limit the price of costly drugs.
National board sets annual limits on how much states may spend on health
care, encouraging greater reliance on less costly plans such as HMOs.
Health plans must charge all residents of a region the same basic premium
and may not refuse coverage or charge more for pre-existing conditions.
Beginning in 2000, taxes insurance benefits above the minimum package.
Limits attorneys’ fees in malpractice awards and requires nonbinding
arbitration.

Oregon plan: Allows Oregon to proceed with its plan provided it
substantially meets standards of national plan.

Special concern: At urging of Unsoeld and other women on committee, more
prevention services for women, such as more frequent mamograms, included in
basic benefils package.

REP. ELIZABETH FURSE, DEM.

She is a co-sponsor of Washington Rep. Jim McDermott's Canadian-style
single-payer plan, under which the government collects premiums in the form
of taxes and is the “single payer," reimbursing all providers.

Here's how she envisions health care:

What's covered: Primary, preventive, prenatal and long-term care, all
prescriptions, family planning including abortion, comprehensive mental
health, licensed alternative treatment including chiropractic care, some
eye and ear care and comprehensive dental care for children.

Who's covered: All U.S. citizens and legal residents within one year of
enactment.

Who pays: Large employers pay 8.4 percent payroll tax; businesses with
fewer than 75 lower-wage employees pay 4 percent. Individuals pay 2.1
percent on taxable income and no additional insurance or health care costs.
Government subsidizes small businesses and the poor and raises federal
taxes on cigarettes to $2 per pack and on handguns and ammunition to 50
percent. States pay 15 percent of their health care costs.

How it works: Health insurance companies eliminated except for some
supplemental coverage. Federal government collects taxes and sends states
their shares based on population and demographics. States administer health

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2191

es60 Prles