SMITH: Calls salmon protection a top environmental priority. Supports
moving decision-making to the region and opposes suspending environmental
laws protecting salmon,

GRAZING

THE ISSUE: Western Republicans are trying to overturn new Clinton
administration grazing rulcs intended to increase environmental protections
on federal range lands.

WYDEN : Says he opposes GOP legislation that restores old rales while
raising fees on ranchers, but will not say whether he supports the Clinton
administration plan.

SMITH: Favors overturning the grazing rules and approving the GOP
legislation.

SUPERFUND

THE ISSUE: The troubled federal toxic waste site cleanup program has
been too slow and too expensive. Republicans want to cap costs to polluters
and end additions to the Superfund list within a few ycars,

WYDEN : Wyden , akcy player in the Superfund debate, has Jed the
effort for a moderate reform that would speed cleanups by creating
incentives for polluters to scttle claims.

SMITH: Opposes liability caps for polluters and arbitrary deadlines for
ending the program.

BUSINESS AND CONSUMERS

THE WORKPLACE

THE ISSUE: Worker-safety rules are among the most vexing to businesses.
The Republican majority in Congress wants to overhaul the federal
Occupational Safety and Health Administration. That could stall work ona
standard employers must follow to prevent injuries from typing and other
repetitive actions. Republicans oppose other types of workplace regulation,
including the 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act.

WYDEN : Supports a government role in workplace regulation. Voted in
the U.S. House to require employers to grant family and medical leave.
Opposes Republican efforts to put worker-safety rules to a cost-benefit
test.

SMITH: Says some workplace regulation, such as mandatory family Icave,
is reasonable. Yet he supported a 1995 Oregon Legislature bill making it
harder for injured workers to obtain insurance benefits. Calls rules
affecting his frozen-food business “burdensome” and claims OSHA
regulators “will fine you ... almost in justification of their job.”
Smith-owned companies have been fined several times for injurics and
deaths, but regulators call the companies’ record “relatively good.”

CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY
THE ISSUE: Republicans say the market provides the best incentive for

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2138

0060 pries