He speaks slowly, almost with a drawl at times. While he finds ways to
get attention, he also sometimes blushes when praised, Undraping his
rail-thin frame from whatever chair he's wrapped around looks a little like
folding up a Swiss army knife.

Still cager, Wyden at times strikes critics as misguided.

In 1991, Wyden spent two hours watching Saturday morning cartoons with
his son, Adam, then 7, and was appalled at the relentless advertisements
for high-fat and sugary foods. He joined Michael Jacobson, executive
director of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, in calling on
the federal government to offer public service announcements promoting good.
nutritional habits.

The government didn't respond. But the bad publicity prompted
McDonald's, Dole Food and Kellogg to introduce Saturday morning nutrition
ads.

Jacobson wasn't happy.

“Congressman Wyden has not followed up with hearings," he said.
“He's clearly concerned about the issue. But the opposition is enormous."

Effectiveness, Wyden said, isn’t always measured by legislation or
hearings. What's important is that the message got out, no matter that it
came from the purveyors of high fat and sugary foods themselves, he said.

For years, Wyden has been saying health care was ripe for serious
debate by Congress and the public.

Considering his history on health issues, he has kept a surprisingly tow
profile on the overall reform effort and hasn't yet endorsed any of the
major reform plans.

“One of the reasons I'm not on any of the bills right now is I feel it
would hurt my ability to affect the final package," Wyden said.

He has been a player -- but not a major one -- on health reform by
virtue of his position on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. But,
unlike two other House panels, the committee failed to come up with a plan
of its own. Wyden , though, hopes to become a member if a House
conference committee is formed to draft a compromise version of the various
House proposals.

In the meantime, he is trying to nudge a few pet projects into the
reform debate, including a plan to improve quality of overall health care,
new regulations for health technology and new rules regulating some medical
procedures performed outside hospitals, including plastic surgery.

Wyden secs his successes on other health issues as models for the
larger reform effort. Opening the medical data bank, a repository of
medical complaints and malpractice suits against physicians, empowers

RJR00000001 41017986

se60 PrlEes