reductions over seven years. Clinton is proposing $87 billion to $147
billion im tax cuts, depending on how the economy does.

WYDEN : Opposes GOP tax cuts and says balancing the budget should come
first, But does want to provide a tax break for families earning up to
$75,000 a year to help pay for college and vocational school tuition. Has
supported a capital-gains tax cut and has voted for several tax increases
in Congress. Supported the Clinton tax increase in 1993,

SMITH: Supports a $500-per-child tax credit for families eaming up to
$110,000 a year, a major part of the GOP budget. Supports capital-gains tax
cuts and other GOP plans to reduce business taxes. Has said he would reduce
some tax cuts if necessary to balance the budget. Wants to keep the earned
income tax credit and opposes GOP plans to scale it back,

SOCIAL ISSUES
ABORTION

THE ISSUE: Should federal abortion funding be reduced and some services
climinated? Should abortion be outlawed except when the mother's life is in
danger?

WYDEN : Supports the Roe vs. Wade decision legalizing abortion. Opposes
parental notification requirements, “gag rules" on counseling and
proposed constitutional amendments to restrict abortions. Voted against a»
ban on so-called “partial birth” abortions and opposes reducing abortion
funds and services. Helped bring RU-486, the French “abortion pill," to
the United States for testing.

SMITH: Disagrees with the Roe vs. Wade decision but accepts it as law.
Opposes federal funding of abortion except in cases of rape, incest and
protection of the mother's life. Supports a “partial birth" abortion ban
and an Oregon Citizens Alliance-sponsored measure to restrict second- and
third-trimester abortions. Opposes a proposed federal “human life
amendment” banning most aboriions, calling it overbroad and divisive.
Sponsored a parental notification bill in the Oregon Senate.

GAY RIGHTS

THE ISSUE: Should sexual orientation be a protected civil rights
category?

WYDEN : Opposes OCA attempts to restrict gay rights. Supports
recognition of the equality of sexual orientation and favors legalization
of same-scx marriages. Voted against the military's ““don't ask, don't
tell” policy on the grounds that it discriminates; favors gays and
lesbians serving openly.

SMITH: Opposes OCA attempts to restrict gay rights on constitutional
grounds. Says current laws are adcquate to deal with problems of
discrimination and opposes creating civil rights categories based on sexual
orientation. Opposes allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the
military, legalizing sarne-sex marriages and teaching homosexuality as an
“alternative lifestyle" in public schools.

RJRO00000014 1017986
70053 2135

 

2680 prles