“We must now carefully consider whether approving this proposed
setlement will protect the public health -- and particularly our
children’s health -- to the greatest extent possible," the president said.

Michael Moore, the Mississippi attorney general who led a team of
lawyers negotiating with industry officials, called the talks the most
contentious he had ever experienced and described the proposed agreement as
“the most historic public health achievement in history."

But even those who led the attack on the industry quickly admitted the
agreement's flaws. Attorney General Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut, who
participated in the final phases of the talks, conceded that the proposed
deal had loopholes.

“We have shackled and caged the beast, but we haven't conquered it,"
Blumenthal said. “To our critics, I say, join with us in improving and
implementing these efforts so that industry does not exploit our
disunity.”

The proposal faces weeks of administration scrutiny before legislation
is drafted for congressional debate. In addition, a panel of health experis
led by former Surgeon General C, Everett Koop and Dr. David Kessler, former
Food and Drug Administration commissioner, will review the plan.

Even before the deal was announced Friday it came under fire.

Consumer advocate Ralph Nader told reporters waiting for the attorneys
general briefing that the settlement served the tobacco industry's
interests at a lime when the industry is in retreat. He said public
Officials should not be negotiating relief from the tobacco companies’
legal problems as they face criminal and civil lawsuits that could drive
them out of business.

Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said the cigarette -makers got off
easy, “given the track record of deceit, manipulation and bad faith.” He
said cigarette - makers should have been forced to make a large payment
tothe federal government to cover tobacco -related Medicare costs.

Matthew L. Myers of the Campaign for Tobacco -Free Kids, the lone
public health advocate directly involved in the negotiations, acknowledged
that the proposed agreement was flawed, But he insisted that the talks
produced more than could have been achieved by any other means.

“I have been fighting the tobacco industry for 17 years, making
incremental, marginal changes," Myers said. “This agreement isn't
perfect, bul it represents the single most fundamental change in the
history of tobacco control in any nation in the world.

“Will it work? Time will tell," said Myers, exhausted by four days of
nearly round-the-clock bargaining. “This is a day that history is going to
measure whether we succeeded or failed."

CAPTION:
PHOTO

Photo by THE ASSOCIATED PRESS
Sidebar - In Oregon
Sidebar - Highlights of the tobacco settlement Winners Losers

RJRO00000001 41017986

70053 2113

gZ80 vPles