Special concern: Leading efforts in the House to ensure reform bill
allows Oregon to continue with its own health reform.

REP. MIKE KOPETSKI, DEM,

He serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, one of three House
panels overseeing health care reform. The committee is awaiting financial
projections from the Congressional Budget Office and hasn't finished its
proposal. Although it may change, here's how Kopetski broadly envisions
health care:

What's covered: Primary and preventive care, prenatal care,
prescriptions including drugs for elderly on Medicare and family planning
including abortion. Mental health phased in, on par with physical within
five years of bill's enactment. Dental and eye care may be covered by
additional deductible. Long-term care undetermined.

Who's covered: Afl U.S. citizens and legal residents, perhaps as early
as 1996 or 1997.

Who pays: Businesses with 25 or more employecs pay about 80 percent of
premium, possibly slightly less, for full-time employees, and individuals
pay the balance. Payments for part-timers prorated. Contributions from
businesses with fewer than 25 employees phased in over several years.
Government gives small businesses and the poor subsidies, likely to be paid
for through a broad tax, such as a payroll tax, and a fee charged employers
who don't provide insurance. States pay an amount similar to what they now
pay for Medicaid. Smokers pay an increased tobacco tax, but it’s not
relied on to fund health care,

How it works: The government insures elderly, oor and other uninsured
through an expanded Medicare. Employers with fewer than 100 employees may
buy Medicare rather than private insurance, All other employers offer
workers a range of insurance options, including at least one
fee-for-service plan. States may establish voluntary regional alliances to
negotiate for best coverage and lowest costs.

How it controls costs: Government sets rates for services reimbursed
under Medicare and, based on those rates, premiums for Medicare recipients.
Because many more Americans are eligible for Medicare, private health plans
forced to control costs to remain competitive. Health plans may not refuse
coverage for pre-existing conditions and generally must charge residents of
the same region the same premium.

Oregon plan: Plan is likely to guarantee more benefits than the Oregon
plan and eliminate need for rationing.

Special concern: Sponsored House resolution urging mental health
coverage in parity with physical care,

REP. PETER DeFAZIO, DEM.

He has not endorsed a specific health care reform plan. Here's how he he
broadly envisions health care:

LS60 bres

RJRO000000141017986
70053 2189