499
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris. reserv.

09172101

TOBACCO INDUSTRY MAKES A DEAL THE DEAL: MONEY WILL BE EARMARKED
FOR ANTI-SMOKING CAMPAIGNS, HEALTH CARE WHAT'S NEXT: THE
ADMINISTRATION AND CONGRESS FACE A TOUGH DECISION

Oregonian (PO) - Saturday, June 21, 1997

By: JOHN M. BRODER - New York Times News Service

Edition: SUNRISE Section; WIRE STORIES Page: A01

MEMO:

Cigarettes Tobacco
TYPE: National

1

R

TEXT:

Washington - Summary: Cigarette -makers call it a bitter pill but agree to
pay $368.5 billion during 25 years to limit their legal liability for
health damages

Tobacco negotiators announced a historic setilement Friday that would
change forever the way cigarettes are marketed in the United States.
If ratified, the agreement would provide billions of dollars in
compensation to states and radically alter the nation's legal, regulatory
and public health landscape.

Despite the cigarette -makers' concessions, the groundbreaking proposal
would give the tobacco industry a reprieve from the gravest legal and
financial threats it has ever faced.

The complex agreement, negotiated by a group of state attorneys general,
plaintiffs’ lawyers and industry representatives, would require cigarctte
companies to pay $368.5 billion over the next 25 years to compensate states
for the costs of treating smoking-related illness, to finance nationwide
anti-smoking programs and to underwrite health care for millions of
uninsured children,

Under terms of the proposed settlement, the tobacco industry would
admit for the first time in prominent new warning labels on every package
of cigarettes that smoking by an estimated 45 million Americans is
lethal and addictive. The plan imposes strict new limits on tobacco
marketing and advertising, including a ban on vending machines and outdoor
billboards. It gives the U.S. Food and Drug Administration new powers to
regulate nicotine as a drug and cigarettes as drug delivery devices.

The nation's four largest cigarette manufacturers described the
proposed settlement as a bitter pill that required previously unimaginable
concessions. The companies said the deal was the best they could hope to
achieve in an extremely hostile environment.

“Negotiations of this size and scope create compromise, not
perfection," the companies said. *“But on balance this plan is preferable

180 Pyles

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2111