4/9/67

DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian

(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All ris, reserv.

08222326

MORE TOBACCO REGULATION AHEAD
Oregonian (PO) - THURSDAY, August 10, 1995
Edition: SUNRISE Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A01

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: President Clinton will let the FDA take steps to declare nicotine an
addictive substance

President Clinton has decided to let the Food and Drag Administration begin the process of declaring
the nicotine in tobacco an addictive drug, thus clearing the way for the most significant regulations in the
history of the tobacco industry.

Administration officials said the president's decision stemmed from his judgment that the FDA
successfully had made a scientific and legal case for the addictive nature of nicotine.

They said the While House still was reviewing preciscly what new restrictions the agency should
impose, but Clinton is to announce at least some of them Thursday. The early steps will be intended to
curb teen-age smoking, and they will include restrictions on vending machine sales and on advertising
that reaches children. They specifically avoid any new restrictions on adult smoking, administration
officials said.

Sull, the FDA's action would be a landmark change in the government's approach to cigarettes ,
marking the first time it has asserted jurisdiction over the product, as opposed to the advertising for it,
which is barred on television. The move could open the door to future regulation that, in theory, could
result in a ban on cigarettes and most likely will lead to years of legal and legislative wrangling.

In a glimpse of the battle that surely will ensue, Brennan Dawson, a spokesman for the industry's
Tobacco Institute, said the tobacco companies well might go to court and certainly would appeal to
Congress to try to halt the action.

“The FDA docs not have jurisdiction and should not be regulating tobacco products," Dawson
said. “That would lead down the road to prohibition.”

Dawson also said that, to avoid regulation, ihe industry, which has long professed opposition to teen-age
smoking, was willing to take steps to help curb it, perhaps by keeping vending machines out of grocery
stores and other places where children have access.

The FDA has the power to assert jurisdiction over the nicotine in tobacco under the Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act. But that authority can be challenged in court. In addition, Congress may write laws to
steer the agency's action if enough votes can be garnered in both houses to overcome a presidential veto.

Tobacco -state lawmakers already have promised a bitter fight over any regulation of the tobacco
industry. Last week, for instance, Rep. Charlie Rose, D-N.C., said that if a voluntary agreement with the
industry could not be reached, “*some Republicans here are licking their chops for that one; they want to
go head to head with the White House."

As administration officials discussed the new plans Wednesday, Clinton was in Charlotte, N.C., where
he warned of the dangers of teen-age smoking in a speech to a gathering of Baptists.

$c60 PrlEes

RJR0000000141017986
7G053 2162