SMITH: Wouldn't touch Social Security, calling it *the most conspicuous
public contract government has.” Doesn't want to change the formula for
increases. Supports the disability program but wants a time limit on
alcohol and drug disabilities.

EDUCATION

THE ISSUE: Republicans have proposed major cuts in education, including
eliminating the Department of Education. Educational reformers are pushing
for national learning standards to raise the level of competence among the
nation's graduates.

WYDEN : Wants to make college loan interest tax-deductible and give tax
credits to middte- and lower-class families for college tuition. Supports
school-to-work programs, voluntary academic standards and keeping the
Department of Education.

SMITH: Opposes education cuts proposed by GOP congressional leaders.
Says the Department of Education should be merged with other social
programs. Favors national education standards but opposes having them
become mandates without funding.

MEDICAID

THE ISSUE: Republicans have proposed reducing projected Medicaid
spending by $133 billion. President Clinton thinks the cut is too great,

WYDEN : Has been an Oregon Health Plan advocate in Congress. His budget
proposal calls for $54 billion reduction in Medicaid spending. Says the GOP
proposal would not provide enough money to keep the health plan safe.

SMITH: Supports the Oregon Heaith Plan as implemented, Also supports the
GOP proposal for Medicaid cuts.

BUDGET AND TAXES
THE BUDGET

THE ISSUE: Congress and President Clinton are arguing over competing
plans for balancing the budget by 2002.

WYDEN : Calls for higher spending on Medicare, Medicaid and welfare and
less spending on defense than do congressional Republicans. In his budget
plan, didn't make clear how he would cut other domestic programs to balance
the budget. Has opposed balanced-budget constitutional amendments that do
not exempt Social Security.

SMITH: Supports GOP budget plans with a few modifications. Wants to
stick to Clinton's defense budget and spare environmental and student loan
programs. In his budget plan, avoided detailing how much he wanted to cut
from various budget categories. Strongly supports a constitutional
amendment requiring a balanced budget.

TAXES

THE ISSUE: The GOP-controlled Congress wants $241 billion in tax

RJRO00000001 41017986
70053 2134

 

9680 PrlEes