AOS
DIALOG(R)Filc 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
(c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.

07607098

CIGARETTE MAKERS GET SMOKED OUT
Oregonian (PO) - SUNDAY, April 17, 1994

By: DAVID SARASOUN - Associate Editor, The Oregonian
Edition: FOURTH Section: EDITORIAL Page: F02

MEMO:
TYPE: Editorial Column

TEXT:

WASHINGTON - You can't say that Henry Waxman doesn't know how to make a
gucst feel welcome.

Thursday, when seven top tobacco executives came to testify before
Waxman's health subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee,
they found looming over their seats a poster declaring, “One American dies
cvery 80 seconds from tobacco use."

Probably splattering their witness chairs with blood would have becn going
too far.

Going too far was nol a major constraint on the congressmen, who did
everything but fling bodies at the feet of the filter-tip financiers. ~

During a six-hour hearing -- which could make you Jong for the days when
*“smoke-filled room" meant something different -- the politicians battered
the executives with letters from bereaved survivors of smokers, tales of
the deaths of their own parents, photos of mouth cancer, and a 7-year-old
boy with asthma.

The boy, a discovery of Rep. Ron Wyden , D-Ore., stood about two feet
from the executives and read a statement that he couldn't go bowling
because people were smoking at the bowling alley.

Afterward, Wyden asked cach executive, one by one, why he wanted to
kill this child -- or words to that effect.

The tobacco types, on the other side of the table, gave as good as
they got -- or as bad. James W. Johnston, CEO of RJR Tobacco , compared
the effects of tobacco to the effect of sugar on his mother's diabetes,
and declared emotionally, *‘For you to sit here and tell me my mother's
life is not at stake is wrong."

If you can't defend your product, at Icast you can defend your mother.

That was after the part when the executives compared a cigarette habit
to being addicted to Twinkies, but before the part when they pointed out
that nicotine was also present in tomatoes and eggplant. That came just
before Johnston cited a British article arguing that cigarettes. might be
less addictive than carrots.

This may explain all that strange leaping around by Bugs Bunny.

RJRO0000001 41017986

70033 2211

©Z60 prles