419166
DIALOG(R)File 704:(Portland)The Oregonian
- (c) 1998 The Oregonian. All rts. reserv.
08223196
CRUSADE AGAINST TEEN SMOKING FACES OBSTACLES
Oregonian (PO) - FRIDAY, August 11, 1995
By: ROBERT A. RANKIN - Knight-Ridder News Service
Edition: SUNRISE Section: WIRE STORIES Page: A01

MEMO:
Teen Smoking
TYPE: National Definition

TEXT:
WASHINGTON - Summary: The crackdown, ordered Thursday by President Clinton,
is likely to bog down for years in the couris and Congress

President Clinton ordered a sweeping federal crusade against teen
smoking Thursday, but formidable legal and political obstacles may prevent
it from taking effect for years, if ever.

Clinton directed the Food and Drug Administration to spearhead his
crusade 10 curb smoking by people under age 18 by sharply restricting the
sale, advertising and promotion of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco .
Cigars and pipe tobacco are not targeted.

Major tobacco companies and a coalition of advertisers and publishers
immediately filed separate lawsuits challenging Clinton's legal authority
to carry out his order.

Conservative Republicans and Democrats in Congress also predicted that
federal courts are likely to block Clinton's anti-smoking order for years
and probably will overturn it in the end,

Anticipating such opposition, Clinton called on Congress to avoid such
gridlock-by-lawsuil by writing his proposed anti-smoking regulations
directly into federal law, but it appears unlikely that Thursday's
pro-business Republican majority will do that.

“Whether the FDA has legal authority to regulate tobacco is a
question for the courts, not Congress,” said Rep, Tom Bliley, R-Va., a key
lieutenant in House Speaker Newt Gingrich's army of conservatives, Bliley
chairs the House Commerce Committee, which oversees the FDA. He also
represents Richmond, where tobacco giant Phillip Morris is the largest
employer,

~The president's decision to test the limits of the law to give the FDA
unprecedented new powers -- including authority to ban tobacco products
altogether -- will ultimately be reversed by the courts, but only after
years of complicated litigation,” Bliley predicted.

Sen, Wendell Ford of Kentucky, a Democratic ally of tobacco growers
and a heavy smoker, attacked Clinton in harsher terms for abandoning
efforts to get tobacco companies to compromise voluntarily.

Clinton, Ford said, “has chosen litigation over compromise, delay over

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2159

 

1260 PRLES