Housing and Urban Development, said more money was needed for programs like
the Columbia Villa housing project law enforcement patrol and the screening
of potential public housing tenants.

*Blaine Layton, special agent for the U.S. Forest Service, Pacific
Northwest Region, said his department has to pick and choose which illegal
marijuana growing operations to investigate on federal lands “and Ict the
others go." In 1987, his office found 265 marijuana gardens in the region
and confiscated more than 15,000 plants. So far this year, the Forest
Service has found 100 gardens and confiscated more than 11,000 plants.

Wyden , while saying he was encouraged that President Bush made the
fight against drugs his first television address instead of just an
election-year ploy, pointed out that the fight “isn't just about moncy.”

"This is a fight about priorities," Wyden said. Fighting drugs and
crime has to come before the president's plan to send a mission to Mars,
before continued monctary support of U.S. allies such as Japan and Western
Europe, and before spending on stealth bombers, he said. ‘

Wyden aiso said Bush's new $7.8 billion drug control strategy "glosses
over what has become a terrible scourge in Portland,” the gang issue.

The rally-goers in North Portland decried gangs, including Bloods, Crips
and Skinheads. Sponsored by the Black United Front, they marched down
Northeast Fremont Street with signs and shouts against neighbohood drug
dealers. The march moved past burned and vacant houes where drug dealers
have operated.

"No more dope!" and "We're fired up!" marchers shouted, as residents
along the route came out and smiled and waved and applauded.

They later gathered under the pavilion at Unthank Park. The public
address system arranged for the event failed so the hailer on a Portland
Police Bureau squad car was used.

Tim Jones, who lives on North Haight Avenue, said neighbors have to be
diligent to keep crack cocainc dealers away. He said he drove off a dealer
coming into the neighborhood.

"We've got some beautiful kids, young kids, and we want to keep them
clean," Jones said, “We've got a good loving home, but I'm fighting the
peer pressure out there."

CAPTION:
PHOTO

photo by STEVE NEHL of The Oregonian Staff.

Copyright (c) 1989, The Oregonian Publishing Company

gg60 Pyles

RJR0000000141017986
70053 2223