OBSCENITY

THE ISSUE: How can children be protected from Internet pornography and
television violence? Should the National Endowment for the Arts be
scuttled?

WYDEN : Opposes efforts, such as the Exon-Hyde proposal, lo ban
indecency and obscenity on the Internet. Has proposed an alternative that
would help families and on-line providers solve the problem without
government censorship. Supports ~V" chips in new television sets so
parents can block violent programs, Supports continued funding of the
National Endowment for the Arts.

SMITH: Opposes free-speech protection for obscenity and would support
tough measures against cybersrnut. Led the fight to put an anti-obscenity
measure on the Oregon ballot. Favors technology that enables parents to
protect children from television sex and violence. Supports continued
funding of the National Endowment for the Arts but doesn't want tax dollars
used for controversial projects.

SCHOOL CHOICE AND PRAYER

THE ISSUE: Is a religious equality amendment necessary to allow for
voluntary prayer in public schools? Should federal tax dollars be used to
subsidize school choice, including the option of private schools?

WYDEN : Opposes a religious equality amendment on the grounds that
voluntary school prayer is permissible under existing laws and that
government should stay out of this area. Supports choice within the public
school system but opposes vouchers or tuition tax credits that would
subsidize private schools with taxpayer dollars.

SMITH: Supports a religious equality amendment ‘as an appropriate
accommodation of religious pluralism" but says school prayer should not go
beyond “a non-coercive moment of silence." Supports choice among public
schools. Opposes vouchers as destructive of public school system.

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION

THE ISSUE: Has affirmative action gone too far? Should race and gender
continue to be considered in federal hiring and contracting?

WYDEN : Does not favor quotas but supports targeting of qualified
minority candidates and women in federal hiring and contracting. Supported
the Gender Equity in Education Act to increase the number of women going
into math and. science.

SMITH: Supports a government role in getting everyone to the starting
line through education and training opportunities but would let the
“marketplace of merit" take care of things after that. Opposes compulsory
affirmative action in the private sector.

ENVIRONMENT

ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT

8680 Prles

RJRO0000001 41017986
70053 2136