@ TO:

FROM:

 

PHILIP MORRI A INTER-OFFICE RRESPONDENCE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592
Distribution DATE: July 13, 1994
Marian Halpern LS WVarnaw
ENERATION X F ROUPS - 4.

SUBJECT:

DETAILED FINDINGS

BACKGROUND/METHODOLOGY

The primary objective of this research was to further learn about Generation Xers.
To achieve this objective, two focus groups were held among 18-24 year old
males and females in Englewood, NJ. on June 3,1994.

Respondents were asked to discuss a number of issues, including:

« What they think Generation X is all about

¢ Factors that unite and/or influence their generation

¢ Similarities and differences between their generation and their parent's
generation

¢ Segments into which their generation can be divided and how those segments
can be identified :

Towards the end of the groups, respondents were shown a number of print ads
and were asked to sort them into piles depicting different segments of the
population. They were then questioned about why the ads were for these
specific groups, with a special focus on ads that they felt were for them

SUMMARY OF HINDINGS

These young adults view their generation as diverse, having varied interests and
lifestyles. Differences between people are expected and accepted. These
differences enable Generation Xers to have friends who are interested a variety of
things and lead lives that are not the same as their own.

Despite the diversity found among these young adults, Generation Xers do
appear to share certain attitudinal and behavioral characteristics. Specifically,
these shared characteristics are that they:

- Resist segmentation and labeling

- Are self-focused

- Have mistrust for the news media

- Show marketing savvy

- Like to try new things and experience life

- Believe financial security is important but is not their ultimate goal

Respondents in both groups had heard of the term "Generation X", with some
indicating that the term had negative connotations. Specifically, one young
woman stated that Generation Xers "...supposedly don't care about anything."

9925698902