Generation X
July 13, 1994
Page 2

While it was admitted that there probably are members of their generation (and
other generations) who fit this description, they did not think the term was
applicable to their entire-generation. They view people in their age group as
diverse, having varied interests and lifestyles. Differences between people ate
expected and accepted. These differences enable Generation Xers to have
friends who are interested in different things and lead lives that are different than
their own.

Despite the diversity found among these young adults, Generation Xers do
appear to share certain attitudinal and behavioral characteristics. Specifically:

Generation Xers resist segmentation and labeling. They feel that
“everyone is into everything now so you really can't label anyone."
Segmenting by type of music listened to or by dress does not apply for this
age group because the boundaries that succeeded in distinguishing in the past
have disappeared. For instance, they indicated that what was once
considered “altemative" is now what is considered "mainstream’. It would not
be surprising for someone to be politically conservative, wear a suit during the
day, grundge clothes at night and have a pierced body part.

They are self-focused, tending to interpret even such global issues as AIDS,
pollution, and the economy only in terms of the impact or affect these issues
have on their lives.

Generation Xers have mistrust for the news media, stating that it
manipulates the public by dictating what is important through the news
reports. Further, the barrage of short-lived news blasts makes it difficult for
them to become involved in all of the issues, forcing them to focus on only
those things that they perceive as affecting their lives.

They show marketing savvy, indicating that they are aware that certain ads
target certain people. Further, ads that target them too strongly are found
unappealing. Ads containing humor (Little Caesar's) or product information
are preferred.

They like to try new things and experience life. When forced to label
themselves, most of these young adults stated that the term "adventurer" best
describes them because they consciously seek out new experiences.

Financial security is important but is not their ultimate goal. Money is
important to these young adults because they want to be able to meet their
basic needs (food, shelter). However, having fun and enjoying life is also
important to themso they do not want to spend their lives working to merely
to accumulate money.

£92@5698902