(=

Mr. R. A.-Kampe ee ee
October 9,.1986 a

_ Page6 _ . -

MARKETING=SCIENCES AND INFORMATION SERVICES (Continued)

—

1. Business Planning and Analysis (Continued)

e Modffiéd several warehouse forecasts to provide for impact of the Novem-
ber 1 military price increase. Approximately four weeks of additional
military volume was loaded into October 20-31 which pays back in
November.

Sales Research

@ At the request of Jim Best, developed a report listing the top 50 cus-
tomers in the South Atlantic sales area.

Quantitative Methods

@ Confirmed with Brand Management and Product Recovery Operations proce-
dures for a test of sampling and counting methodology for returned goods
recommended by MDD. The test will provide needei information to refine
MDD's recommended procedures. The intent of the revised procedures is
to improve information on returned goods by brand style.

® Provided consulting to two Established Brands Research groups. In one
case, developed a spreadsheet to provide significant testing on product
attributes. This reduced a two hour task to ten minutes. In the other
case, provided sensitivity analysis to help Established Brands Research
determine the appropriate sample size for an upcoming study.

@ Negotiated with ISSCO software an agreement to run their TELLAGRAF soft-
ware in parallel mode on both the MDD DECSYSTEM A and MDD's hew VAX 8600
until the end of the year. This is to allow the completion of MDD's
conversion of graphics applications to the VAX and ensure an orderly
transition. This extension is at no cost to the company. ,

@ Developed preliminary computer aided design procedures for’ questionnaire
development. This has the potential to save significant time and money
in managing questionnaires for MDD's consumer tracking program.

Marketing Intelligence

e Brown & Williamson

- Falcon Lights Branded Generic - Brown & Williamson introduced Falcon
Lights in Kentucky on July 7, 1986. Mr. Don Fitzgerald, Lexington
division manager, confirmed that Brown & Williamson has a rebate pro-
gram giving jobbers 20¢ a carton.

~ GPC Generics ~- Brown & Williamson sent a letter to all direct accounts
on August 19 advising them that GPC is the best selling generic line
which is sold to 1,400 distributors and supported by Brown & William-
son's 1,500 sales representatives. Brown & Williamson is apparently
concerend about inroads being made by Philip Morris with their Best
Buy label and All American Value Brands.

0226 4950S