Mr. R. A.-Kampe , : — Tor 0 7 Tage 5 - : > : = mete ee

October. 9,-1986 a ee See

Page 4 . . - ; _.

CONSUMER “RESEARCH -

1. Advertising and Promotion Research

® Presented to Mr. J. T. Winebrenner and Marketing Directors improved OOH
testing procedures involving an overlay of eye tracking and computer
technology onto standard OOH testing procedures. This procedure
enhances insight into reasons why OOH boards perform as they do, as well
as provides the possibility for aiding in the development of effective
OOH.

The procedure has been implemented with the recent evaluation of new
WINSTON OOH. Next steps in exploring the role of this procedure in the
OOH development process are to expose the procedure to RJRT advertising
agencies to determine interest.

2. Consumer and In-Market Tracking

@ The following progress has been made on the development of a national
diary panel and a comprehensive consumer tracking system.

- Pilot tests are in the field to estimate the costs of cold screening
and the return rates on recruiting mailers relative to a diary panel.

- A recommendation is being developed for an integrated tracking system
which will be presented to you by mid-November.

- An Issues Task Force has been set up to provide input on the key
business issues the Consumer Tracking System could address.

@ The DCRAL Support Program in pack action outlets is on schedule.
Currently audits are being conducted in Albuquerque to determine the
effect of continuous marketing support for DORAL in pack outlets, and
separate consumer research will be conducted in Wichita to determine
competitive impact. ‘7

Through a market visit to Albuquerque, it was determined that the store
panel met selection criteria and that Field Sales is “completing nec-
essary study functions. The opening inventory was completed the week of
September 29 and final results from the audits will be reported on June
1, 1987. An interim report from the audits will be available on March
2, 1937. .

e Working with the Marketing Sciences Area to reduce the cost of using
Nielsen subtabs to evaluate marketing programs. Nielsen subtabs are
generally purchased to measure in-market activity due to the relatively
low cost of this data source.

Nielsen subtabs are used by measuring a market activity in a test area
relative to a control market. Thus the test and control areas should
have similar share trends during the pre-period. However, Nielsen does
not provide a cost effective process to select test and control areas
with similar historical share trend. The selection of matched test and
control areas can sometimes exceed the cost of purchasing subtab data
thus reducing the cost benefits of Nielsen data.

Next steps include discussions with Nielsen to determine their resources
to reduce the cost of selecting test and control markets.

BL26 49505

“y