XEROX TELECOPIER 295 ; 11- 1-89; 2:27 PM: 217 544 0874 > 6360907 ; #14
IL TOBACTO + CANDY TIt TEL No.217-544-0e74 Nov. 1.89 14:26 F.14

REVIEW OF HB 1696 BY COALITION OW SMOKING OR HEALTH

The Coalition on Smoking er Health is an organization funded by the American
Cancer Society, American Heart Association and American Lung Asgociation to lobb
on topacce related issues at the federal jeve!. The ition staff, Matt Myers
and Cliff Souglas, are s attorneys. t r expertise in this area-and
knowledge of case precedence, we felt they could help us identify any potentia)
problems with our legislation, especially Section 9 dealing with discrimination.
We were hoping they could give us additional information that would help people
fee! more comfortable with that section.

 

Cliff and Matt offered some interesting insights thet are very important as we
negotiate with the tobacco people. Unfortunately, they are not very reassuring,

They feel Section 9 has to be considered in light of the rest of the bil]. They
have a number of cautions ebout the bi] which are outlined below.

1. Trey do not see the bil] as being @ private work place bill. Section 3c
Cefines public place and would appear to include private work places.
However, Sectien 4 states that the law “shall not apply to factories,
warehouses and simitar places of work not usually frequented by the genera)

" Matt and Cliff feel a good case could be made that this law does not
cover private companies, 4.6. insurance companies, lawyers’ offices, our
offices, because these are not places where the public generally comes.
Because of the way the b111 18 worded, the intent of the legislation is not
clear. The language in Section 5 which refers to the proprietor of a private
structure that includea a public place could be seen as strengthening this
argument, It is their feeling that the tobacco industry would jump at the
first opportunity te test this in court.

2. Section 5 permtts the establishment of a designated smoking srea and further
states tnat exieting barriers can be used to minimize the intrusion of smoke
into areas where it is not permitted. This creates many potential problems.

A. It establishes smoking in certain areas eas the norm. A smoker could use this
language with that in Section 4 regarding places not usually frequented by the
public to challenge an employers’ right to make a building totally nonsmoking
or to not hire a smoker, especially if the discrimination section is left
intact.

B. Another scenario ts that of the smoker who works on the edge of a smoking
section right next to the nonsmoking section in a place of employment. If _
existing Garriers and ventilation are not adequate to keep smoke out of the
nonsmeking section, nonsmokers would essentially be powerless. They wouldn't
be able to do anything because the law allows a smoking section, the person 15
in the amoking section, barriers only have to minimize intrusion of smoke and
the smoker can not be discriminated against. Conseaquentiy, the very people we
are trying to protect could be left unprotected without any alternatives.

C. In Pittaburgh, the tobacco industry has mounted a massive campaign promoted as
“Accommodation ~ We are fair to everyone”. Using ads, posters, stickers for
doors and windows, etc., they are using the law there to encourage designated
amoking areas everywhere.

TIILBC 020263

a