ernon:

: *@7- wor,

“SEATTLE POST -NTELLIGENCER, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 1982

) Seattle researcher

1005125627

T..Riley dies”

Prominent ‘Seattle physiclan Vernon Todd received a bachelor's degree in biology from

Riley died suddenly yesterday Spokane Coll
the annual meeting 6f the
Society at Daytona Beach, Loa
Dr. Riley, 68, was chairman of the depart-
tment of microbiology for the Pacific Northwest

lege in 1935 and attended George i j:

fashion Uaiverty ta Washington De i tedical articles and fs listed

o 4 doctor of science degree in microbi- - “ i

ology from the University of Paris in 1966. enct»224 “American blen and Women of &
He was @ section head at the prestigious

Research Foundation, parent organization of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research at

Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Centere arr.

1.) He collapsed while chatting with a friend in” aie 1978, he also bas been an affiliate
“ & hotel elevator yesterday morning. He did not Professor of rehabilitation medicine at the Uni-
respond to emergency aid and was ee anced versity of Washington Medical SchooL _

dead at a Daytona Beach hospital, Cause of hi
+ death was not immediately determined. »»
“° Dy. Riley had most recently been studying
: the role stress plays as 2 possible contributor to
-. Cancer in humans A major paper on that topic
~ | Was widely quoted In the press earlier this week
, alter it was presented by Dr. Riley at the Florida |
g meeting. eT Pr a oe
ex Native of Idaho © - Ny
He was termed an “excellent researcher™”
Yesterday by Dr..William Hutchinso: a, president
Of the Fred Hutchinson Center. Cot
. “He was interested in all phases of basic
research as it relates to bumap beings,” Dr.
Hutchinson said “He's been 2 fine person to
have in the institute. He's been loyal, hard-
working and devoted to science. What more is
Where to say? oe ee
i Dr. Riley was born in Idaho Falls, Idaho. He

asic.

Rye. N.Y., for three years bef ming in tle.

y 1 iy be ore Co here in of Seattle, and Ano Riley, cesidiog on the Ea
Coast; two sons, Dennis and Michael Riley, als
On the East Coast; and a sister in San Diego.

She

Dr. Riley was the author of many publish.
in the “Wor

Who's Who in Science,” “American Men of S.

Survivors inctude his wife, Jeannie, of Sez

two daughters, Christine Wynn Palmerto

Funeral services will be announced later.
we tol me :

cate

The Sesitie Times ~“Wedhiésaay: March'st-Téa9"—7

OS tee aT ewe: 6 ee ;T?

- Vernon Riley, noted researcher, dies : A

Services are pending for Dr.”

“ Vernon Todd Ritey, a prominent
’ Seattle. cancer . researcher who-.
. Collapsed and died yesterday at
Daytona each, Fla., where he
Was attending the annual writers’
seminar of the American Cancer :
_ Society. ao Bo
. Burial will be In San Diego. | -
* Riley, 68, had presented a
Major paper Sunday on how labo-
ratory animals under stress had a
dramatically higher percentage of
“, Rew cancer growth. He reported —

WS

that it is too early to conclude
whether human beings would react
the same way, but advised that
people reduce stress in their lives,

iley was chairman of the
division of Microbiology of the

: Pacific Northwest Research Foun- /
* dation, the parent organization of

the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Re
search Center. He also was 2

member of the scientific staff of -
” Dennis Riley of Rockville, Md.

the Hutchinson center.
He was an affiliated professor.
of rehabilitative medicine at the

Si gMe ee ee Bee

University of Washington. He yas
known as’a prolific writer. He had:
conducted cancer research under’a’ |
number of grants. “oo at
A native of Idaho Falls, Riley ,
received his doctor of science
degree from the Sorbonne, Paris-
Surviving are his wife, Jean-
nine; two daughters, Christine Pal-.
merton of Seattle and Ann Riley of

Rockville, Md., and two. sons, *

and Michael Riley of Columbus, *;
Ohio. Soe ee Vive edd

2
eS
ct

aah en eS

 

a