INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

OIA
fem 430)

36

 

Msti Vsti 78

Inspiratory Time Interval

Fic. 6. Graphic display of instantaneous diaphragmatic pressure
across inspiratory time intervals. In all panels, O indicate age-matched
normal (AMN) group, whereas ga represent chronic obstructive pul-
monary disease (COPD) group. ANOVA indicated that group-by-in-
spiratory time intervals interaction was significant at the 0.05 level.
Therefore, at each inspiratory time, we compared AMN and COPD
subjects by group ¢ tests. * P < 0.05; ** P < 0.01; *** P < 0.001. Equal
tidal volumes (Iso-VT) comparison: AMN 25% peak work rate (WR
peak); COPD 50% WR peak. Equal minute ventilation (Iso-VE) com-
parison: AMN 50% WR peak; COPD 100% WR peak. Equal levels of
mean esophageal pressure swings (Iso-Pes) comparison: AMN 100%
WR peak; COPD 100% WR peak. DIA, diaphragmatic.

Iso-VE and Iso-Pes (i.e., 100% WR peak), maximum Ppra
, occurred at 25% Ti and the decrease from maximum to
end inspiration was 9 cmH,0.

AMNs us. COPDs. The asterisks in Fig. 6 indicate that
at rest, AMNs exhibited a greater Ppi4 than COPDs at
end inspiration. At Iso-V1, Ppia in AMNs were greater
than those noted in COPDs at 90% Ti as well as Vste.
The Iso-VE panel indicates that AMNs exhibited a
higher Ppra than the COPDs from 75% TI to end inspi-
ration, whereas the Iso-Pes panel indicates that Ppis in
the AMNs were greater than those noted in the COPDs
from 50% TI to end-inspiration.

Inspiratory Accessory Muscle Pressure

Figure 7 presents a graphic summary of the Pjay data.

AMNs. At rest, peak Piam occurred at 50% Ti with a
<2-cmH,0 decrease from this maximum to end inspira-
tion. At both Iso-VT and Iso-VE, maximum Pray occurred
at 75% TI with a <2-cmH,0 decrease from maximum to
end inspiration. In contrast, at Iso-Pes, peak Pyam oc-
curred at 90% Ti with a 3-cmH2O decrease from this
maximum to end inspiration. Thus maximum Pyam oc-

 

 

Mati Vsti

Inapiratory Time Interval

FiG. 7. Graphic display of instantaneous inspiratory accessory mus-
cle (IAM) pressure across inspiratory time intervals. For details, see
legend to Fig. 6. Iso-Vr, equal tidal volumes; Iso-VE, equal minute
ventilations, Iso-Pes, equa! levels of inspiratory esophageal pressure
swings.

curred later in inspiration as exercise intensity increased.

COPDs. At rest, maximum Pram occurred at 50% Tt
and decreased 4 cmH,0 from this maximum to end
inspiration; similar patterns were observed at Iso-VT,
Iso-Ve, and Iso-Pes.

AMNs vs. COPDs. The asterisks in Fig. 7 indicate that
for the rest, Iso-VT, and Iso-VE comparisons, COPDs
exhibited approximately three times more Pyay than the
AMNs; all these differences were significant at the 0.001
level (Fig. 7). In contrast, at Iso-Pes, COPDs only exhib-
ited a higher Piam than AMNs at 25 and 50% TI.

Postexpiratory Recoil Pressure

Figure 8 presents a graphic summary of the Perr data.
Since Pper activity was limited to early inspiration, we
confine our comments to the Msti and Vsti intervals as
indicated in the figure.

The numbers in parentheses above the bars in Fig. 8
indicate the number of AMNs and COPDs who exhibited
a Peer at that particular comparison.

AMNs. Our subjects exhibited statistically significant
differences between Msti and Vsti only at Iso-Pes, ie,
Msti > Vsti.

COPDs, Pper at Msti was greater than that at Vsti at
both Iso-VE and Iso-Pes.

AMNSs us. COPDs. Figure 8 indicates that in all three
exercise comparisons, the COPD group had a greater
number of subjects exhibiting PER activity at Msti and

 

 

50655438