INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

30 REST

PER
(om 4,0)

conor fonral

30

20

wa

PER
dem 430)

(nea
B

30) ito:

Iso-VE

10 (aligs
Gi

PER
(em H,O)

380) criti» \lso-Pes

20
a iat
ol +A ha a

Msti Vsti 25 50 7s 30

PER
(om H20)

 

vste
Inspiratory Time Interval

Fic. 8. Graphic display of instantaneous expiratory recoil (PER)
pressure across inspiratory time intervals. For details, see legend to
Fig. 6. For definitions of other abbreviations, see legend to Fig. 7.

Vsti than the AMN group. Additionally, in all three
exercise comparisons, the asterisks indicate that COPDs
exhibited Ppgr values that were statistically greater than
the AMN values at both Msti and Vsti.

DISCUSSION
Major Findings

We have presented quantitative estimates of Pom,
Piam, and Ppge throughout inspiration in both COPDs
and AMNs at rest as well as during various intensities
of treadmill exercise. Quantitative estimates of these
instantaneous pressures have not heen previously re-
ported.

Based on our quantitative estimates of Poia, Pram, and
Pper, we draw the following conclusions. First, at all
intensities of exercise, COPDs exhibited higher Pper
than the AMNs. Second, at all intensities of exercise,
COPDs exhibited higher Pray (throughout Ti) than
AMNs. Third, at rest, both AMNs and COPDs exhibited
an increasing transdiaphragmatic pressure throughout
inspiration. As VE increased with exercise intensity, the
AMNs continued to maintain this transdiaphragmatic
pressure ramp throughout the first 75-90% of inspira-
tion; in contrast, COPDs exhibited higher values of
transdiaphragmatic pressure throughout the first half of
Ti than during the second half.

Comparison of Results Generated by Our Model
with Other Techniques

Grimby et al. (9) used plots of rib cage volume (Vrc)
vs. Pga and abdominal volume (Vab) vs. Pga to infer the

895

activity of different respiratory muscle groups during
exercise. Figure 9, left, shows such plots for a represent-
ative AMN subject at end exercise. Both Vrc-Pga and
Vab-Pga tracings show a vertical orientation with very
little change in Pga throughout the respiratory cycle.
The analysis of Grimby et al. (9) would suggest that rib
cage and abdominal! muscles are both active throughout
the respiratory cycle with a pattern of coordination that
accomplishes the elastic work of moving the chest wall,
thus allowing the pressure developed by the diaphragm
to be spent on expanding the lungs.

Figure 9, right, shows Vre-Pga and Vab-Pga plots for
a representative COPD subject at end exercise. During
expiration, Pga increases >25 cmH,O and exhibits a
rapid falloff as end-expiratory volume is approached.
During inspiration, Pga falls modestly as volume in-
creases. Overall, both loops are totally inscribed in a
clockwise fashion and have a negative slope. The analysis
of Grimby et al. (9) would suggest that rib cage and
abdominal muscles have completely taken over move-
ment of the chest wall and are doing appreciable flow-
resistive work as well as some elastic work on the lungs.
Thus the separate rib cage and Vab pressure tracings
indicate that both rib cage and abdominal muscles are
more active in the COPDs than in the AMNs at end
exercise (i.e., Iso-Pes comparison) and are consistent
with our conclusions that COPDs exhibit greater Pper
and Pram than AMNs during exercise.

Additional qualitative validation of our conclusions is
provided by electromyographic measurements. Figure 10
shows ventilatory muscle EMGs and inspiratory flow
recorded from a representative COPD subject at end
exercise (ie., 100% WR peak). Inspiratory activity in
both the parasternal intercostal (EMG IC) and the ster-
nomastoid (EMG SCM) support our conclusion that
patients with COPD exhibit IAM activity at end exercise.
Similar observations at rest and lower levels of exercise
support the inference that IAM activity is prominent in
patients with COPD at all ventilatory levels evaluated in

 

4, AMN 4, COPD
=> 3 yg
3
3 |
ar 2
& | 4
>

 

VAB (a.u)

 

O25 0 Eo

Pga (cm Hg0}

FIG. 9. Chest wall-gastric pressure (Pga) plots from a representative
age-matched normal (AMN) subject and a representative chronic ob-
structive pulmonary disease (COPD) subject. Top: rib cage volume vs.
Pga {Vrc-Pga) plots; battom: abdominal volume vs. gastric pressure
(Vab-Pga) plots. Left: AMN data; right: COPD data. a, start inspira-
tion; x, end inspiration; and J, direction of loop at indicated points.

50655439