890

trical subtraction of Pes from Pga. Pes, Pga, and Pdi
were all displayed on our polygraph recorder (model VR-
12, Honeywell/Electronics for Medicine, Pleasantville,
NY).

Ventilatory measurements. The subjects wore noseclips
and breathed through a mouthpiece connected to a saliva
trap and a two-way nonrebreathing respiratory valve
(models 6900 and 2700, Hans Rudolph, Kansas City,
MO). The subject inspired humidified air at 22-25°C and
60-70% relative humidity. The humidifier was connected
to an inspiratory pneumotachograph (model 3800, Hans
Rudolph) heated to 87°C to prevent condensation. The
pneumotachograph was connected to a variable reluc-
tance pressure transducer (model MP45-871, Validyne
Engineering, Northridge, CA), which in turn was con-
nected to a sine-wave carrier/demodulator unit (model
CD15-981, Validyne Engineering) that produced a direct
current (DC) output signal that was transmitted to our
polygraph recorder (model VR-12, Honeywell/Electron-
ics for Medicine). Expired gas was directed through the
respiratory valve into the expiratory pneumotachograph
(model 3800, Hans Ruldoph), which was interfaced to
our polygraph recorder in a manner identical to the
inspiratory pneumotachograph. The respiratory valve
and both pneumotachographs were mounted on a spring-
counterbalanced support, allowing relatively free move-
ment by the subjects during rest and treadmill exercise.
The following parameters were computed for each subject
from the airflow measurements noted above: minute
ventilation (VE), tidal volume (V7), ventilatory fre-
quency (Vs), and T1 per breath.

Additionally, we used a mechanical analog system to
clarify the phase relationships between airflow, Pes, and
Pga. We noted that the three measurements remained in
phase up to a frequency of 12 Hz; this was the highest
frequency that we were able to generate with our me-
chanical system. .

Metabolic measurements. To measure Oz uptake (VO2)
and CO, production (VC02), gas flow from the expiratory
pneumotachygraph was directed to a 6-liter mixing
chamber, which was sampled continuously by a polaro-
graphic OQ, analyzer (Beckman OM-11, Beckman Instru-
ment, Fullerton, CA) and an infrared CO, analyzer
(Beckman LB-2).

Inductance plethysmography measurements. Respira-
tory excursions of rib cage and abdomen were measured
using standard techniques with the Respitrace no, 300SC
(Non-Invasive Monitoring Systems, Ardsley, NY). To
minimize the effect of changes in spinal attitude on our
measurements of rib cage and abdominal displacements
during both rest and exercise, subjects were encouraged
to maintain as nearly constant a standing erect posture
as possible (15).

EMG measurements. Surface EMGs of the inspiratory
intercostal (EMG IC), sternomastoid (EMG SCM), and
external oblique (EMG ABD) were recorded by silver-
silver chloride electrodes connected to an EMG amplifier
assembly (Moss Rehabilitation Center, Albert Einstein
Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA) having a passband of
0.1-1,000 Hz. All EMG signals were then passed through
Butterworth filters (—3-dB points, 20 and 250 Hz, roll

INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

off —24 dB/octave; model 255-5L, A.P. Circuit, New
York, NY); we used this high-pass filtering at 20 Hz to
minimize motion artifact. Additionally, the EMG of the
crural diaphragm was recorded by a silver-wire esopha-
geal electrode similar to that of Gross et al. (10); this
electrode was then connected to the above-noted EMG
amplifier assembly.

EMG SCM was recorded from an electrode placed on
the belly of the sternomastoid midway between the ster-
num and the mastoid process. EMG IC was recorded
from an electrode placed parasternally in the right second
interspace. EMG ABD was recorded from an electrode
in the midclavicular line midway between the iliac crest
and the lower rib margin.

Data Processing

The output of all transducers and instruments was
displayed on our two polygraph recorders (model VR-12,
Honeywell/Electronics for Medicine, Pleasantville, NY).

Non-EMG signals. Subsequently, these signals were
digitized at 100 Hz by a 12-bit analog-to-digital converter
that was connected to a computer (PDP 11/03, Digital
Equipment Corp., Maynard, MA). The data were then
stored on magnetic tape for later processing by a second
computer (PDP 11/73, Digital Equipment Corp.)
equipped with a graphics display terminal.

EMG signais. The output of the polygraph recorder
that displayed the EMG signals was stored on magnetic
tape by an FM instrumentation recorder (model 3968-A,
Hewlett-Packard). After completion of the experimental
run, the instrumentation recorder was connected to the
above-noted analog-to-digital converter and computer.
All EMG signals were then sampled at a rate of 512 Hz
and subsequently processed on our second computer (see
above),

We then computed a “moving average” representation
for all EMG signals. A major problem with “moving
average integration” of diaphragmatic EMG and EMG
IC signals is contamination from the electrocardiogram,
which is simultaneously recorded along with these sig-
nals. Accordingly, we used our cross-correlation tech-
nique for removing electrocardiogram (ECG) complexes
from these signals (11). EMG SCM and EMG ABD
signals showed no ECG contamination. Subsequently,
we used a digital algorithm for computing a moving
average representation for each of the EMG signals; the
time constant of this moving average was 75 ms.

Subjects

We studied 11 male COPDs and 8 AMNs. The mean
age of the COPDs was 66 + 2 (SE) yr and their mean
forced expiratory volume at 1s (FEV,9) was 1.0 4 0.1
liters; all COPDs had an arterial Poo, < 42 Torr. The
mean age of the AMNs was 60 + 2 yr and their mean
FEV,» was 3.7 + 0.2 liters. Informed consent was ob-
tained from all subjects, and our study was approved by
the Human Studies Committee of the Philadelphia Vet-
erans Administration Medical Center.

 

50655434