BIS

5_o_ 8

Pressure (cm H20)
3

  

 

Mot Ven 25 8075 90 Var Men ei 25 50 75 50 Vste
inspiratory Time Interval

FIG. 12. ‘Time courses of diaphragmatic pressure (Ppia) and inspir-
atory accessory muscle pressure (Piqm) across inspiration in 2 repre-
sentative COPD subjects. In A and B, Poa is indicated by # and —,
whereas Pram is depicted by a and ----. A: representative of data from
4 subjects; B: representative of data from 7 subjects. Msti, mechanical
start of inspiration; Vsti, ventilatory start of inspiration; Vste, end of
inspiration. See legend of Fig. 11 for definitions of other abbreviations.

Pprr to be falsely high and our estimates of Prax to be

falsely low. Conversely, a decrease in tonic activity of the_

expiratory muscles during the transition from rest to
exercise would cause our estimates of Ppgr to be falsely
low and our estimates of Pjam to be falsely high. (We
consider the latter case to be highly unlikely.) The errors
caused by a change in tonic activity of the IAM from
rest to exercise can be reasoned in an analogous manner.

We have approximated the respiratory relaxation
characteristic to be perpendicular to the Pdi = 0 isopleth.
This appears to be reasonable for AMNs, and it is not
appreciably different from the data published by Mack-
lern et al. (13). However, for COPDs, it is reasonable to
assume that the compliance of the lung is greater than
the compliance of the chest wall over a modest volume
range above FRC. This would result in a relaxation line
that is not perpendicular to the Pdi = 0 isopleth, but
rather departs downward and to the right (ie., less
change in transpulmonary pressure for a given volume
change than in transabdominal pressure).

Macklem et al. (13) pointed out that strickly speaking,
the Pes-Pga diagram can be used to partition respiratory
pressure changes only under static conditions. Under
dynamic conditions, the equations of motion of the lung
and chest wall provide a relationship between the relative
changes in gastric and esophageal pressure during
breathing, which is given by the following equation

APL _ (Vr/Ci) + (Rt-V)

APw (V1/Cw) + (RW-V) (1)

where PL and Pw are pressures driving the lung and
chest wall, respectively; CL and Cw are the compliances
of the lung and wall, respectively; and RL and Rw are
the resistances of the lung and wall, respectively. Rear-
ranging terms

APL (1/CL)-[Vr + (RL: CL). V)
APw  (1/Cw).[Vt + (Rw-Cw)-¥]

It may be seen from Eg. 2 that the effects of increased

(2)

INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

resistance (and increased time constant) in (he lung will
tend to cause an increased change in transpulmonary
pressure for a given change in transadominal pressure
during dynamic conditions when the change in transab-
dominal pressure is driving the relaxed chest wall (9).
Accordingly, the assumption of a “pure” diaphragmatic
breath as approximating a perpendicular to the Pdi = 0
isopleth would appear to be useful to a firnt approxima-
tion for COPDs as well as AMNs during dynnmie breath-
ing. This being the case, our conclusion that at all
intensities of exercise, COPDs exhibit a higher Prax
throughout TI than AMNs would appear to be warranted.

Mechanisms

Poge and Pism greater in COPDs than AMNs. Figure
10 indicates that neural excitation accounts for Ppyy, and
Piam noted in COPDs. We presume that a similar basis
exists for Pppr and Pyam noted in the AMNs. At any
given level of exercise intensity, we believe that COPDs
exhibited a greater neural drive to the expiratory muscles
and the inspiratory accessory muscles than the AMNs,
and we assume that this difference accounted for the
greater Pper and Pjam manifest by the COPDs.

Decreases in Ppia and Pram during the latter half of
inspiration in COPDs. We have previously noted that
one major finding of our study was that at 50 and 100%
WR peak, COPDs exhibited higher values of Ppia during
the first half of Ti than during the second half. In
RESULTS, we also noted that at 50 and 100% WR peak,
maximum Pyam in COPDs occurred at 50% Ti and de-
creased from this maximum to end inspiration.

On inspection of our COPDs data at both 50 and 100%
WR peak, we noted that Pes became progressively less
negative after 50% Ti. Therefore we investigated the
possibility that neural drive to both diaphragm and in-
spiratory accessory muscles was less during the second
half of Tr than during the first half. Accordingly, we
quantitated neural drive to the diaphragm and two in-
spiratory accessory muscles (i.e., parasternal intercostal
and sternomastoid) in all 11 COPDs at both 50 and 100%
WR peak. We used a 75-ms moving average representa-
tion of the EMG as a measure of neural drive, and this
data is presented in Table 2. Table 2 shows that at both
exercise intensities, peak activity occurred in all muscles
during the latter half of T1. Second, Table 2 indicates
that EMG activity during the second half of T1 was
greater than during the first half. Therefore we conclude
that decreases in EMG activity cannot explain the de-
creases in Ppj, and Pam noted during the latter half of
TL

Additionally, ANOVA on the data in Table 2 indicates
that no statistically significant difference existed be-
tween parasternal intercostal, sternomastoid, and dia-
phragmatic activity at 25, 50, 75, and 90% of T1 when
EMG activity is expressed as a percent of peak activity.
This indicates that the time course of inspiratory neural
drive was the same for both diaphragm and inspiratory
accessory muscles.

We then analyzed the time course of Poi, and Pray
throughout inspiration for each of our 11 COPDs at
100% WR peak. We found two basic patterns, which are

50655442