896

INSP FLOW

EMG SCM

EMG DIA

EMG ABD

0.8 wacy

the present study. It may also be seen that activity in
the external oblique (EMG ABD) is prominent during
most of expiration and turns off abruptly before the start
of inspiratory flow. This latter observation is consistent
with the concept that Pper is due to relaxation of the
expiratory muscles, and that abdominal muscle activity
is not prominent during inspiration.

Critique of Our Model

Although no agreed-upon reference standard exists to
validate our estimates of Pray and Ppsr, direct measure-
ments of Pdi (i.e., electrical subtraction of Pes from Pga)
always differed by <2 cmH,O from our estimate of Ppra
throughout rest and the entire range of exercise intensi-
ties in both COPDs and AMNs, This finding indicates
the quantitative validity of our Ppy, values.

Previous workers (2, 6) have hypothesized that expir-
atory recruitment of abdominal muscles occurs during
exercise in patients with COPD, thereby allowing elastic
and gravitational energy to be stored in the chest wall,
and that relaxation of the expiratory muscles accounts
for PER. Therefore our finding that COPDs had an
appreciably greater Ppyn than AMNs implies that expir-
atory Pes and Pga were greater in COPDs than in AMNs.
Although such expiratory pressure tracings are not rep-
resented graphically in our model, Fig. 1LA indicates that
at the Iso-VT, Iso-VE, and Iso-Pes comparisons, Pes was
greater in COPDs than in AMNs trom 25 through 90%
expiratory time, and Fig. 11B shows a similar difference
between AMNs and COPDs with respect to expiratory
Pga.

Macklem and co-workers (2, 3, 18, 14) first suggested
that Pes-Pga relationships can be used to infer the
contributions of DIA, IAM, and PER to inspiratory
pressure generation. Initially, they limited this type of
analysis to circumstances characterized by relaxed ab-
dominal muscles (13). Figure 10 indicates nearly com-
plete absence of external oblique activity in COPDs

INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

INA ONG

FiG. 10. Traces of EMG activity of
sternomastoid (EMG SCM), parasternal
intercostal (EMG IC), diaphragm (EMG
DIA), abdominal external oblique (EMG
ABD), and inspiratory flow-rate (INSP
FLOW).

during inspiration. If activity in the external oblique is
representative of all abdominal muscles in COPDs, it
follows that our model can be used to estimate the
contribution of DIA, IAM, and PER to inspiratory pres-
sure generation, since inspiration appears to be charac-
terized by relative abdominal muscle relaxation.

Since we do not have abdominal muscle EMG’s in
AMNs, we used the Vab-Pga plot to infer abdominal
muscle tone during inspiration. Figure 9 shows that
inspiration is represented by a nearly vertical line in both
AMNs and COPDs. We interpret these vertical tracings
along the lines suggested by Grimby et al. (9); thus a
vertical displacement during inspiration on the Vab-Pga
graph represents the combination of decreasing tone in
the abdominal musculature in concert with increasing
tone in the diaphragm such that the change in Vab occurs
with virtually no change in abdominal pressure. In this
way, the decreasing expiratory tone of the abdomen
during inspiration allows the abdominal wall to act as if
it were essentially infinitely compliant, and therefore, it
represents a zero elastic load to the contracting dia-
phragm. Similarly, a vertical tracing on the Vre-Pga
graph represents a turning off of expiratory activity in
the rib cage muscles in concert with diaphragm contrac-
tion, followed by a gradually increasing inspiratory mus-
cle activity in the intercostal and accessory muscles in
the latter portion of inspiration. Analogous to the per-
spective seen in the abdominal wall, the rib cage mus-
culature activity is thereby coordinated with that of the
diaphragm so that the rib cage presents no elastic load
to the contracting diaphragm during inspiration.

It should be pointed out that for both the AMNs and
COPDs, the end-expiratory volume of the abdominal
compartment is substantially below that at resting func-
tional residual capacity (FRC) (i.e., RP). Since the com-
pliance of the passive abdominal wall increases markedly
below its resting FRC value, the tracings shown in Fig.
9 represent behavior of the abdominal wall that is con-

 

50655440