INSPIRATORY PRESSURE GENERATION

before exercise.

Inspiratory pressure vectors. Vectors can then be con-
structed between RP and various time intervals during
the time of inspiration (TI); Fig. 1 shows schematically
the vectors from RP to 25, 50, 75, and 90% of TI (see @).
Additionally, we show vectors from RP to the mechanical
start of transdiaphragmatic pressure (Pdi) upswing (1)
(Msti, 0), the ventilatory start of inspiratory airflow (1)
(Vsti, 4), and the end of inspiration (Vste, x) as deter-
mined by the cessation of inspiratory airflow.

Pd isopleths. Since the normal Pes-Pga end-expiratory
pressure difference is ~10 cmH,0O, our Pdi = 0 emH.O
line (ie., the line that describes the absence of DIA
activity) passes through the RP with a slope of —1 on a
Pes-Pga diagram when both axes are scaled equally.
Figure 1 shows Pdi isopleths of 0, 10, and 20 cmH;0.

Decomposition of Inspiratory Pressure Vectors into DIA
Pressure (Ppia), IAM Pressure (Pay), and PER
Pressure (Pppg) Components

We decompose the inspiratory pressure vectors by a
computer algorithm. First, we compute the RP. Second,
we translocate the RP to the origin (i.e., 0, 0) of a Pes-
Pga plot having identical scales on the ordinate and
abscissa. Third, we decompose the vector connecting RP
to the particular inspiratory point (i.e., points A or B in
Fig. 2) into a diaphragmatic component and a nondia-
phragmatic component. Fourth, we calculate the magni-
tude of these components.

Location of RP. We determine RP as the end-expira-
tory pressures preceding the sharp Pdi inspiratory up-
swing (1) or the beginning of inspiratory airflow, which-
ever came first. Within the frequency response of our
instrumentation, these two points were either identical,
or the upswing in Pdi occurred first.

Estimation of Pora. When only DIA activity is occur-
ring, the inspiratory pressure vector will lie on the line
y= (which is also the relaxation line. We present the
argument underlying this latter statement in DISCUS-
SION).

Pes (em H20)

 

Pga (cm H20)

FG. 1. Schematic representation of inspiratory vectors. @, 25, 50,
75, and 90% of inspiratory time; x, end inspiration; o, mechanical start
of inspiration; 4, start of inspiratory airflow. Schematic shaws vectors
connecting resting point (RP) with each of above points. Pdi, diaphrag-
matic pressure, Pes, esophageal pressure; Pga, gastric pressure.

Pes (a.u-)

4
Pgo (0.0)

FIG. 2. Decomposition of inspiratory pressure vectors after trans-
location of resting point (RP) to origin (i-e., 0, 0). Esophageal pressure
(Pes) and gastric pressure (Pga) have same scale expressed in arbitrary
units (a.u.), IAM, inspiratory accessory muscles, PER, postexpiratory
recoil; DIA, diaphragmatic.

Estimation of nondiaphragmatic component. We deter-
mine the nondiaphragmatic component as the vector that
is perpendicular to the DIA vector and connects it with
the particular inspiratory point. If the nondiaphragmatic
component lies to the left of the DIA line, we attribute
this vector to IAM activity (Fig. 2). Conversely, if the
vector lies to the right of the DIA line, we attribute this
vector to PER.

Representative examples of inspiratory vector decom-
position. Figure 2 presents examples of decomposition of
schematic inspiratory vectors after translocation of the
RP to the origin. Line 0C is characterized by the equation
y=x. Line AB is perpendicular to line OC. Inspiratory
vectors are drawn from the origin to points A and B on
the Pes-Pga diagram. Each point represents the instan-
taneous value of Pga and Pes at a specified time in the
respiratory cycle (point A typically occurring in midin-
spiration, whereas point B occurs close to the onset of
inspiration).

Figure 2 indicates that inspiratory vector 0A is decom-
posed into a DIA component that is equal to 0C and an
IAM component that is equal to AC. Additionally, Fig. 2
indicates that inspiratory vector 0B is decomposed into
a DIA component that is equal to 0C and a PER com-
ponent that is equal to CB.

Measurements

Measurement of Pes, Pga, and Pdi. Pes and Pga were
directly measured via 100-cm catheters fitted with 10-
cm latex balloons according to the method of Milic-Emili
et al. (16). Pressure transducers (model PM 131-TC,
Gould, MSP, Oxnard, CA) were connected to the proxi-
mal end of each catheter via a three-way stopcock. The
esophageal balloon was filled with 0.5 ml of air and it
was positioned in the middle-third of the esophagus. The
gastric balloon was filled with 2 ml of air and advanced
into the stomach. Both transducers were referenced to
room air during measurements. Pdi was derived by elec-

 

50655433