Inspiratory pressure generation: comparison
of subjects with COPD and age-matched normals

SANFORD LEVINE, MICHAEL GILLEN, PHILIP WEISER, GARY FEISS,

MICHAEL GOLDMAN, AND DAVID HENSON

Pulmonary Disease Section, Philadelphia Veterans Administration Medical Center, Philadelphia 19104;
and Medical College of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19129

Levine, SANFORD, MICHAEL GILLEN, PHILIP WEISER, GARY
Feiss, MichakL GOLDMAN, AND Davip HENSON. Inspiratory
pressure generation: comparison of subjects with COPD and age-
matched normals. J. Appl. Physiol. 65(2): 888-899, 1988.—We
continuously monitored esophageal (Pes) and gastric (Pga)
pressures and used these measurements in a three-component
model to estimate instantaneous diaphragmatic (DIA), inspir-
atory accessory muscle (IAM), and postexpiratory recoil (PER)
pressures at various times during inspiration. We validated our
model both by volume-pressure relationships of the respiratory
system (Vrc-Pga and Vab-Pga, where Vre and Vab are the rib
cage and abdominal volumes, respectively) as well as electro-
myography of the respiratory muscles. Measurements were
carried out at rest and during graded treadmill exercise in 11
subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPDs)
and 8 age-matched normal subjects (AMNs). AMNs were 59 +
2 (SE) yr and had a forced expiratory volume at 1 s (FEVio) of
3.6 + 0.2 liters; COPDs were 66 + 2 yr and had a FEV, of 1.0
+ 0.1 liters. We noted the following. At rest, both AMNs and
COPDs exhibited an increasing DIA pressure (Ppia) across
inspiratory time (T1) at rest. As expired minute ventilation
increased with exercise intensity, AMNs continued to maintain
this Poi, ramp across inspiration; in contrast, COPDs exhibited
higher values of Ppra during the first half of Ti than during the
second half. At all intensities of exercise, COPDs exhibited
higher IAM and PER pressures than the AMNs.

diaphragmatic mechanics; ventilatory muscle fatigue; treadmill
exercise

FOR OVER A CENTURY, previous workers have attempted
to evaluate the contribution of different respiratory mus-
cle groups to ventilation at rest and during exercise (4).
In 1976, Grimby, Goldman, and Mead (9) studied thor-
acoabdominal volume-pressure changes in normal hu-
mans and concluded that at rest the diaphragm was the
only importantly active inspiratory muscle. During in-
creasing intensities of bicycle exercise, they observed
thoracoabdominal volume-pressure changes, which they
interpreted as reflecting increased activity of the inspir-
atory accessory muscles (IAM) and expiratory muscles.
Grimby, Goldman, and Mead (9) hypothesized that ex-
piratory increases in abdominal pressure represented the
storage of elastic and gravitational energy in the chest
wall at end expiration; at the beginning of the next
inspiration, relaxation of the expiratory muscles would
release this energy and thereby facilitate inspiratory

888

airflow.

More recently, Dodd, Brancatisano, and Engel (6)
utilized thoracoabdominal volume-pressure measure-
ments to evaluate the contributions of various ventila-
tory muscle groups to inspiration in patients with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) during bicycle
exercise. They hypothesized that postexpiratory recoil
(PER) of the abdominal wall resulted in rapid diaphrag-
matic descent, outward movement of the rib cage, and
decompression of thoracic gas, and pointed out that
contraction of the abdominal muscles during expiration
tended to preserve diaphragmatic length for the initia-
tion of the subsequent inspiration. However, neither
Grimby et al. (9) nor Dodd et al. (6) attempted to describe
the instantaneous pressures generated by the different
ventilatory muscle groups throughout inspiration.

Macklem and co-workers (2, 3, 13, 14) first introduced
esophagea! pressure-gastric pressure (Pes-Pga) relation-
ships to infer the contributions of the diaphragm (DIA),
IAM, and PER to inspiratory muscle pressure generation
by a direct graphic method, and showed that this analytic
approach was useful in a qualitative assessment of ven-
tilatory muscle coordination during breathing under dif-
ferent circumstances. Despite the extensive studies of
Macklem and co-workers (2, 3, 13, 14), these authors did
not attempt to quantitate the instantaneous pressures
generated by different ventilatory groups throughout in-
spiration.

In the present study, we use a three-component model
of inspiratory pressure generation to estimate instanta-
neous DIA, IAM, and PER pressures at various times
during inspiration. We present these estimates for 11
COPD subjects (COPDs) and 8 age-matched normal
subjects (AMNs) during rest and various intensities of
treadmill exercise. We include ventilatory muscle elec-
tromyograms (EMGs) as well as the relationships be-
tween changes in thoracoabdominal displacements and
respiratory pressures (9) to validate the conclusions
drawn from our model of inspiratory pressure generation.

METHODS

Definition of Terms

Resting point. We define resting point (RP) as the Pes
and the Pga at the start of inspiration (i.e., end-expira-
tory values of Pes and Pga) during the rest interval

0161-7567/88 $1.50 Copyright © 1988 the American Physiological Society

 

50655432