RJR] News Report February 10, 1998

AUSTIN, Texas, Feb. 9 /PRNewswire/ -- Some 64 percent of Texas youth said the threat of
losing their driver's license would keep them from smoking, according to a recent statewide
survey conducted for the Texas Department of Health (TDH). Another 23 percent said the
sanction would make them cut back on smoking.

Senate Bill 55 imposes a range of penalties for tobacco use by Texans under 18, including
mandatory attendance at tobacco education classes, required community service, a $250 fine and
suspension of the driver’s license for repeat offenders.

The 75" Texas Legislature charged TDH with conducting a public education campaign aimed at
curbing tobacco use among youth. NuStats International conducted the survey for the department
to identify the atlitudes of Texas children ages 10 through 17 and their parents about tobacco and
the new state law that aims to keep kids tobacco-free.

“We surveyed young Texans and their parents to find out what would have the best chance of
making kids think twice before using tobacco,” explained TDH Commissioner Dr. William
Archer. “Overwhelmingly, teens said that losing their driver's license is the sanction most likely
to deter them from using tobacco.”

NuStats interviewed 233 sets of parents and children (466 total), chosen to represent the
geographic, ethnic, and socioeconomic diversity of Texas. Survey findings include:

Youth surveyed said the threat of losing driver’s licenses (64 percent) and the $250 fine (48
percent) would be the top two deterrents for youth smoking.

Tobacco education class (45 percent) and community service (44 percent) would be slightly less
effective deterrents.

More than half (58 percent) of Texas youth say family members smoke and about a third (34
percent) have close friends who smoke.

About half the parents and youth were not aware of the new law.
86 percent of parents and 87 percent of youth approve of Texas’ new tobacco prevention law,

“Tobacco is the leading cause of preventable deaths in Texas, and it is the only product that,
when used as directed, causes mass addiction, disease and death,” Archer said. “Yet, the survey
revealed that most parents and youth do not believe the fact that tobacco kills more Texans than
alcohol, AIDS, illegal drugs, auto accidents, suicides, homicides, and fires combined.”

While some of the provisions of Senate Bill 55 took effect in September, the most far-reaching
aspects took effect in January. Highlights of the law include:

Prohibits minors from buying, using or possessing tobacco products except in the presence of
their parent or guardian.

Allows law enforcement officers to write citations to minors caught smoking or possessing
tobacco products, Penalizes minors for violating the law by requiring them to attend eight hours
of tobacco awareness classes or pay a fine of up to $250.

$168 620ES

RJR0G00000141018097
70055 7113