RJRI News Report February 10, 1998

“T really started, so 10 speak, to smell a rat,” he testified. “I wasn’t sure whose lawyers they were.
Don’t forget they were being paid by Philip Morris.”

So, LeBow said, he secretly hired another set of lawyers to gather knowledge from the attomeys
general of the states suing the industry.

He said he found out for the first time that nicotine addiction was a major issuc in the lawsuits,
and he began to fear for the future of his company, which makes Chesterfield, L&M, Eve and
Lark cigarettes.

LeBow decided Liggett would reach settlements apart from the other cigarette makers and turn
over its confidential internal documents.

“We had now seen all the documents. I was convinced that smoking was addictive, thal smoking
does cause all these problems. ] didn’t want to have to go to court and lie about it,” LeBow
testified.

Liggett packs now carry a warning that smoking is addictive, in addition to he government-
mandated surgeon general’s warnings.

Although Liggett has settled with the state, it remains a defendant of Blue Cross. Other
defendants of both parties include Philip Morris Inc., R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Brown &
Williamson Tobacco Corp.; British-American Tobacco Co. Lid., Lorillard Tobacco Co. and The
Tobacco Institute Inc.

Source: APf 2/10/98 7:29 AM By STEVE KARNOWSKI

RJRI News Report is published by the RURI External Relations Department, Winston-
Salem. The publication serves to provide timely, frequent information to T! managers
and their associates. While every consideration is given concerning the accuracy of the
information published, RJRI External Relations cannot ensure the complete accuracy of
every story as the information is retrieved from a wide variety of external news sources
around the world. If you have any questions about the information provided, or if you

_ want more information on the items covered, please coniact Janis Smith, RJRI External
Relations, at (910) 741-6995.

SZ68 6zo0E¢S

RJRO0000001 41018097
70055 7115