RJRI News Report February 10, 1998

Allows judges to suspend the driver's licenses of repeat offenders and youngsters who fail to .
attend the required tobacco awareness class or pay the fine.

Prohibits the sale of “kiddie packs” containing fewer than 20 cigarettes.

Restricts cigarette vending machines and other self-service sales except in places not open to
those under 18 or in places used as cigar humidors....

Source: PR 2/9/98 2:26 PM

TOBACCO TRIAL

ST. PAUL, Minn, (AP) -- The head of America’s smallest major cigarette maker began to think
there was something seriously wrong in 1995 when his largest competitor offered 10 cover his
company’s legal bills.

Bennett LeBow, chairman of the parent company of The Liggett Group, testified Monday in
Minnesota's $1.77 billion lawsuit against the tobacco industry to recover costs of treating
smoking-related diseases. The trial was scheduled to resume today.

He told jurors how Liggett ultimately broke ranks with the big cigarette makers, settled with
Minnesota and other states, and agreed to provide damaging evidence about its competitors—all
the while becoming a pariah in the industry.

LeBow, chairman of the Brook Group, said he had toed the industry's “party line” since buying
Liggett in 1986:

There was no proof that cigarettes caused cancer and other diseases. Mostly, he said, he just
repeated what company lawyers told him.

It’s a different story these days. LeBow proclaims unambiguously that cigarette smoking is
addictive and causes lung cancer, emphysema and heart disease.

In the mid-1990s, he began to pay more attention to the mounting lawsuits filed by states and
individuals.

Around that time, he said, industry leader Philip Morris also offered to pay all Liggett’s legal fees
of about $10 million a year,

Liggett agreed temporarily, despite what LeBow called serious misgivings about his competitor's
motives.

Also around that time, LeBow was a major shareholder in RJR Nabisco, the parent company of
R,J. Reynolds.

He unsuccessfully tried to persuade other shareholders to spin off the Nabisco food business as a
separate company. Board members declined, saying it was financially impossible because of the
pending tobacco litigation. \

 

LeBow then began to doubt assurances from his own lawyers that the growing number of i 3 '
lawsuits was no threat to his company. R.
©
©
5 or
RJR00000001 41018097
70055 7114