RJRI News Report February 10, 1998

MARLBORO To PULL OuT OF SPONSORSHIP

Marlboro, sponsors of Hong Kong’s richest annual tennis tournament, have pulled out because of
anti-tobacco legislation, according to reports today,

The cigarette company is believed to have paid close to 2million for last year’s Marlboro
championships, the South China Morning Post reported.

Marlboro first sponsored the event in 1988, bringing in stars such as Ivan Lendl, Michael Chang
and Andre Agassi.

The Post quoted Haider Barma, president of the Hong Kong Tennis Patrons’ Association saying
Philip Morris, which makes Marlboro, had pulled out because of anti-tobacco legislation.

“As far as Philip Morris is concerned, there was no flexibility for them in advertising and
promoting their products. They said it was difficult to justify further involvement,” he said.
Under laws passed last year, tobacco companies cannot use sporting events to advertise on
television and radio,

Hong Kong's other major tennis tournament, sponsored by the Salem cigarette company, is set to
go ahead in April. Marlboro officials were unavailable for comment.

Source: PA 2/10/98 7:04 AM
TOBACCO GIANT PULLS OUT OF HK TENNIS SPONSORSHIP
HONG KONG, Feb 10 (Reuters) - Hong Kong tennis has lost the backing of the Marlboro Man.

Tobacco giant Philip Morris Asia Inc has quit as sponsor of the city’s top tennis event because of
anti-tobacco advertising laws, the company said on Tuesday.

“We have decided not to be a sponsor,” media relations manager Eliot Cohen told Reuters.

“We believe that the new legislation restricting tobacco sponsorship doesn’t allow us to promote
the event in the way we'd like to promote it,” Cohen said.

Philip Morris had been a sponsor of the event for the past ten years through its Marlboro brand,

Hong Kong enacted tough Jaws last year which banned tobacco companies from using sports
events to advertise on television and radio. The ban would extend to subway stations next year.

Events manager Mark Burns of Ken Catton Enterprises, which promotes the yearly tournament,
said: “The promotion of the event would become so limited in a sense, it's not in their (Philip
Morris’) interest to be a sponsor of the event.”

Burns said his company was looking elsewhere. “We are looking for other sponsors, although it
is quite an expensive event to put on. It's going to be a difficult task.”

cZ68 6Z0ES

 

RJRO0000001 41018097