RJR] News Report February 10, 1998

This is the second time in recent weeks that a major sport event in Hong Kong has run into
sponsorship difficultics.

A new sponsor had to be found for the Rugby Sevens when its title sponsor—investment banking
group Peregrine Investments Holdings Ltd—went bankrupt last month. Credit Suisse First
Boston (CSFB) has since replaced Peregrine as sponsor.

The event, formerly known as the Peregrine Sevens, has now been renamed the CSFB Sevens.

Source: RTs 2/10/98 4:09 AM

United States

PHILIP MORRIS TAX FRAUD CASE TO RE-START IN ITALY

NAPLES, Italy, Feb 9 (Reuters) - An Italian judge on Monday scrapped a fraud trial against the
president of tobacco giant Philip Morris’<MO.N> European branch and said a new investigation
had to start all over again in Milan.

Naples judge Bruno D’Urso ruled that the trial of Walter Thoma and 10 managers and officials
of Italian company Intertaba, a Philip Morris affiliate, could no longer be held in Naples because
Milan had territorial competence over the case.

Thoma and the Intertaba officials were sent to trial last October on charges of avoiding payment
on taxes of some nine trillion lire ($5.2 billion) of revenue between 1987 and 1996.

Philip Morris officials have repeatedly denied the charges, saying they had paid all the dues.

D’Urso ruled that since the alleged tax evasion was committed in Milan and since Intertaba is
also based there, Milan prosecutors must take over the case. D’Urso said he had sent Milan
investigators all the court papers in his possession.

Judicial sources said the ruling meant last year’s indictment was now void.

Philip Morris, which makes the Marlboro brand, controls about 50 percent of the Italian cigarette
market with sales of some 10 trillion lire in 1995.

The bulk of its cigarettes sold in Italy are made under licence by the state tobacco department,
Monopoli, which forms part of the Finance Ministry.

Naples prosecutors, when they started their investigations in July 1996, had alleged that Philip
Morris had used Intertaba as a front to take care of its Italian interests to avoid full taxation on
royalties it received from Monopoli.

Source: RTf 2/0/98 5:05 PM

Survey SAYS SUSPENSION OF Driver's LICENSES WILL DETER YOUTH
TOBACCO USE

RJRO000000141018097
70055 7112

 

€Z68 6zoEes