342 , Atvan R, Feinstein ef af,

Selection of outcome event

In previous analyses [14], the entire popula-
tion was combined, regardless of therapy, which
was not used as a predictor variable. The 5-year
survival rate for the 1266 patients was 7%.
Consequently, if survival at 5 years were the
event to be predicted for individual patients, a
93% rate of accuracy could be achieved a priori
simply by predicting death for everyone. To
establish a more suitable predictive challenge,
we chose survival at 6 months after zero time.
This time interval is clinically pertinent for both
prognostic estimations and therapeutic evalu-
ations; and it offers a cogent opportunity to
demonstrate the significance of prognostic vari-
ables, because the 6-month survival rate for the
entire population was close to 50%. (The actual
6-month survival rate was 44%, with a median
survival time of 4.6 months.)

Arrangement of mathematical models

For testing the discriminant function and
logistic precedures, 6-month survival was
chosen as the binary dependent variable, coded
as present or absent. For multiple regression,
survival duration would have been appropriate
as a dependent variable, but could not be used
because it was unknown for the cohort members
who were still alive when last observed. Accord-
ingly, the binary event of survival at 6-months
was also used as the dependent variable in
multiple linear regression.

Since the proportional hazards model uses
@ group's entire survival experience over an
interval of time, rather than simply survival at
a particular time point, we established twa
arrangements for the Cox regressions. In both
arrangements, the model was given the avail-
able data for the entire population, but in the
first arrangement, which we called Cox-J, all
patients who were still alive at the end of | year
were regarded as censored by being withdrawn
alive. In the second arrangement, called Cox-3,
all patients who were still alive at the end of 5
years were similarly censored. The Cox-J model
thus derived its coefficients and predictive vari-
ables from data for a 1-year survival curve, and
would tend to identify predictors that were most
influential in short-term survival. In contrast,
the Cox-5 model, working from a 5-year sur-
vival curve, would put relatively more emphasis
on factors that influence longer-term survival.

~ Some (or all} of these factors, of course, might

be the same in both analyses.

|
CTR SP-FILES 025160

With these arrangements, the five math-
ematical models to be tested contained the three
conventional procedures of multiple linear re-
gression, discriminant function analysis, multi-
ple logistic regression, and the two approaches
described as Cox-I and Cox-5.

Specification of baseline predictor variables

In most analyses of survival for patients
with cancer, the baseline predictor variables
are selected exclusively for such morphologic
attributes’ as the anatomic location, size, and
spread of the cancer, histologic or cytologic
types, and microscopic evidence of vascular or
lymphatic invasion. In previous research for
the population under study [14, 19, 20}, special
attention had been given to classifying and
analyzing the prognostic effects of certain
clinical information which, although constantly
applied in the decisions of “clinical judgment”,
is seldom formally identified, specified, and
quantified. The data from patients’ medical
records and other appropriate sources had been
excerpted and categorized in a taxonomy [18]
that included the variables used in conventional
morphologic staging systems as well as the
additional “new” clinical variables.

In the list that follows, the first 10 variables
represent the special clinical phenomena that
are usually omitted in conventional analyses
of prognosis for cancer. The last 7 variables
represent the customary morphologic and
demographic attributes. The variables are first
discussed according to the format used for our
previous analyses of the lung cancer data. A
subsequent section, titled Coding of variables,
indicates the way in which the original 17
variables were either maintained intact or con-
verted into additional “dummy variables” that
formed the 27 independent variables used in the
current analyses.

1. Symptom pattern. The patterns of sub-
jective symptoms in the clinical spectrum of
patients with lung cancer could be classified in
the following ordinal array, originally coded as
1-4, which reflected an increasing prognostic
severity of clinical manifestations [14, 19, 20}:
asymptomatic, primary symptoms only, systemic
Symptoms, metastatic symptonis.

2. Functional severity. The variable was

formed as a composite of two clinical variables

that had previously been identified [14] as
having prognostic importance. One of the vari-
ables, symptom severity, contained such at-

~ tributes as severe dyspnea, substantial amounts

11025178

Seana

an