4 . ALVAN R. FEMstein et af.

heavy (> 1 but <2 packs/day), and extreme (>2
packs/day),

i6. Pipe smoking.
47. Cigar smoking.

These two variables were used to indicate the
customary use of pipes or cigars as present or
absent. Because patients in the era under study
seldom used smokeless tobacco, it was not
separately identified.

Coding of variables

For the impending analyses to be done by the
mathematical methods, some of the variables
were already cited in dimensional numbers
(such as age) or in binary categories that could
be coded as 0, | and easily managed in the
mathematical process. This type of binary
coding was used for unresolved pneumonia,
chranic cough, chronic dyspnea, chronic pul-
monary disease, active tuberculosis, extraneous
iatrotropy, anemia, sex, pipe smoking and cigar
smoking.

For other variables, however, certain adjust-
ments were needed to allow proper management
of unknown data, or to avoid arbitrary ordinal
ratings that might be analyzed as though they
were dimensional number. These adjustments
were managed as follows:

Symptom pattern variables. The four ordinal
categories of symptom pattern were converted
into three “dummy” binary variables, according
to a coding scheme [23] that preserves the
contrasts between adjacent categories of the
ordinal scale. In the coding scheme, which is
shown in Table 1, if the variable “symptom
stage 1" is selected to enter a model, the main
contrast is between any symptoms and asymp-
tomatic; if “symptom stage 2” enters, the main
contrast is for “systemic symptoms or worse” vs
primary symptoms or none.

Functional severity variables. The three
ordinal categories of functional severity were
transformed into two dummy binary variables

Table 1. Coding scheme for 3 dummy variables describing
4 categories of the ordinal variable, “symptom pattern"

Dummy variable codes

Classification of Symptom Symptom Symptom
symptom pattern Stage | stage 2 stage 3
Asymptomatic 0 0 9
Primary symptoms only i a 0
Systemic symptoms i t a

i { i

Metastatic symptoms

using a strategy of conversion similar to that of
symptom pattern.

INM stage variables. The three ordinal cat-
egories of TNM stage were also converted into
two dummy binary variables, using the same
conversion strategy.

Chronometry variables. Because patients who
were asymptomatic would be listed as unknown
for chronometric duration of symptoms, and
because unknown data create problems in a
maultivariable analysis, chronometry was coded
in three variables that were formed as the
interaction of duration of symptoms and symp-
tom stage. The three variables depended on the
presence of any symptoms (symptom stage 1),
any non-primary symptoms (symptom stage 2),
or any metastatic symptoms (symptom stage 3).
Each of the interaction variables would have the
value of symptom duration for patients who
were in the corresponding symptom stage, and
a value of 0 for patients who were not in that
stage. These variables were respectively labelled
Symptom duration 1, Symptom duration 2, and
Symptom duration 3. With this coding con-
vention the asymptomatic patients would be
denoted by a 0 in all three variables.

Histologic-type cariables. The diverse nom-
inal categories of histologic types were consoli-
dated into five main groups, each of which then
became a dummy variable binary-coded as
present or absent. These five histologic groups
were well differentiated epidermoid carcinoma,
well differentiated adenocarcinoma, small cell
carcinoma (which included “oat cell” cancer),
anaplastic carcinoma (which included “poorly
differentiated” epidermoid or adenocarcinoma,
all “large cell carcinomas”, and patients whose
histology was called “anaplastic” without
further specification), and metastatic carcinoma.
The metastatic carcinoma designation was used
because it had occasionally been applied by
pathologists, without further specification, to
tissues removed from certain metastatic sites.
Patient whose microscopic evidence consisted of
cytology only would be coded as 0 in all five of
these dummy variables.

Cigarette smoking variable. Because the
ordinal ratings of cigarette smoking were
derived from a dimensional magnitude of packs
per day, a special conversion to dummy vari-
ables did not seem necessary, and the original
5-category. ordinal rating scale was allowed to
remain intact, with the coded values of 0-4.

These activities in coding thus preserved 12 of
the original variables, and added 15 dummy

11025180

ee

“er

CTR SP-FILES 025162