on

Comparison of Multivariable Methods for Prediction—I Mi

” 3YTo evaluate the performance of the

multivariable methods when re-substi-
tuted in their development sets and when
tested in a different challenge set.

The results of the research are presented in
a tric of papers. This paper (Part 1) describes
the composition of variables and patients in
the basic set of data used for the analyses. The
paper also delineates the process by which the
basic data set was converted to a “challenge set”
and to seven “generating sets”. The generating
sets contained different prevalences in the
distributions of the main biologic factors.

The second paper (Part TI) presents a com-
parison of the results obtained when four multi-
variable methods were used to analyze data in
the seven generating sets. The results are ex-
amined for the concordance with which the four
methods, applied to the seven sets, selected
“mportant” predictor variables and ranked
their relative importance.

The third paper (Part IH} reports the predic-
tive accuracy of the four multivariable methods
when “resubstituted” in the seven generating
sets, and when tested with the challenge
set.

BASIC STRATEGY

The basic data consisted of information
that had previously been analyzed and reported
for a large cohort of patients with primary
cancer of the lung [14]. The earlier work was
aimed at demonstrating the important predic-
tive impact of certain types of clinical data that
are usually omitted from the exclusively morph-
ologic information used in conventional medical
appraisals of prognosis for patients with cancer
[15].

During the earlier analysis, the clinical, demo-
graphic, morphologic and other predictor vari-
ables had been examined and combined with
clustering methods that formed stratified cat-
egories {or “stages"), rather than the “additive

scores” produced by standard mathematical

models. The clustering strategies involved a
mixture of both clinical judgment to form
biologically coherent groups, and. statistical
isometry to join categories that had similar rates
of survival [16-18], The five composite strata
that emerged from the analysis had been
identified with the letters A-E.

The main biologic attributes used in forming
these strata were the categories of three ordinal

variables; TNM stage, symptom pattern, and
junctional severity. These categories had been
arranged as five composite stages, labelled A, B,
C, D, E, that were associated with a large
prognostic gradient throughout the survival
period [14]. (The distribution of the cohort and
the 6-month survival results for these stages are
shown later in Table 2.)

In the current research, we prepared a series
of seven “generating sets” in which the biologic
characteristics of the A~E strata would have
different statistical distributions. These seven
sets would be examined by each of the math-
ematical methods to form a model with the
appropriate array of predictive variables and
coefficients. We also put aside a separate “chal-
lenge set” containing a group of patients, not
included in any of the generating sets, who
could be used to test the predictive accuracy of
each of the derived models. We could thus
examine the performance of different math-
ematical models for the same biologic phenom-
ena in groups having different distributions, and
in a “new” challenge group.

METHODS

Basic population

The basic population under analysis was an
“inception” cohort of 1266 patients with pri-
mary cancer of the lung. They represented a
consecutive series of all patients with micro-
scopic evidence of this disease, whose zero time
occurred at the Yale-New Haven Hospital or
West Haven VA Hospital during the interval
i January 1953-31 December 1964. Zero time
was demarcated as the date of the first anti-
neoplastic therapy (thoracotomy, radiotherapy,
chemotherapy, or metastatic surgery) directed
at the Ing cancer or its effects. In patients who
received no antineoplastic therapy, zero time
was the date of the decision not to treat, or the
date of the latest appropriate diagnostic evi-
dence that might have been followed by 2
therapeutic decision. Because of unusually com-
plete methods for getting baseline state and
follow-up data [18], information was available
for zero-time status and for the complete 5-year
post-zero interval on all but one of the 1266
patients. (The missing patient, who was last
seen in moribund condition 6 weeks after onset

of “palliative” radiotherapy for widespread

metastases, was counted as though death had
occurred at 1.6 months after zero time.)

CTR SP-FILES 6

11025177

2

5

t

——_

5

3