D
#

ys

targets but was originally planned to distinguish
polytomous unranked nominal categories, such
as the histologic type (adeno, epidermoid, small
cell, etc.) of a particular cancer; and Cox regres-
sion is intended to appraise the entire “dy-
namic” pattern of a survival curve, rather than
a “static” outcome, such as the duration or
binary existence of survival.

Nevertheless, each of the four procedures has
often been regarded as “robust” enough to be
used in ways that differ from its underlying
theoretical principles and justifications. Al-
though not wholly proper according to math-
ematical principles, binary events have been the
dependent variable in linear regression and Cox
regression; and ordinal variables have been the
target of logistic regression.

In this research, we wanted to compare the
performance of the four multivariable analytic
procedures in a manner analogous to studying
“observer variability”. When challenged by
data for the same biologic phenomena, would
the four procedures produce the same results?
Would the same independent variables be
chosen as significant predicators? Would the
selected predictors be given similar weights or
ranks of “importance”? Would the results have
similar accuracy when patients are classified in
the “generating” groups used for developing the
models, or in “challenge” groups that were not
previously examined?

BACKGROUND AND GOALS

The questions just cited have seldom been
explored with empirical data, and the existing
explorations have pursued only a limited spec-
trum of challenges,

In a non-exhaustive search of the literature,
we found 13 published reports in which specific
real data, rather than simulated data sets, were
used to compare the performance of these multi-
variable procedures [1-13], One report [9] ex-
amined three procedures—the discriminant
function, logistic, and Cox methods—but in
most instances, the tested procedures were con-
trasted in pairs. In several studies, multiple
logistic regression and discriminant function
analysis were compared either with each other
6, 3-5), or with alternative non-parametric ana-
lytic procedures such as recursive partitioning
13,4, 6, 10, 13]. In other single studies, the com-

pared multivariable procedures were methods of -

linear vs logistic (2], discriminant function vs

CTR SP-FILES

ALVAN R. FEINSTEIN ef ai.

Cox [8], and logistic vs Cox regression [12]. In
one report, Cox’s method was compared when
used alone and when amplified with alternative
tactics for specifying predictor variables [7]. In
another study [11], Cox regression was com-
pared with recursive partitioning and with
correspondence analysis. No previous study
contained a simultaneous comparison of all four
multivariable procedures.

Another limitation in previous studies has
been the composition of the groups under
analysis. A biologically important predictive
factor should presumably have the same effect
regardless of its prevalence in the group
under analysis, but the effect might be altered.
or unrecognized if different magnitudes of
prevalence lead to different statistical decisions
during the dat analysis. For this reason,
the composition of the groups under study is
an important consideration when analytic
methods are compared. To determine whether
the analytic interpretations are affected by
statistical rather than biologic distinctions,
the compared analytic methods should be
tested not with a single group of data, but with
several groups having different prevalences of
the main~ biologic factors. The effect of the

prevalence of various predictors was acknowl-

edged in several previous reports [3, 4, 8},
but prevalence has not hitherto been deliber-
ately altered to allow a systematic study of its
effects,

A third problem in previous research was the
frequent absence of “confirmation” studies. The
particular algebraic models fitted to a set of data
called the generating, training, or development
set have usually been checked by their perfor-
mance when “re-substituted” in the same set of
data (1-5, 7,8, 10]. The models have seldom
been “confirmed”, however, with tests in new or
challenge sets of data for different groups of
people who had not been included in the devel-
opment set, but who were reasonable candidates
for application of the developmental results
2-5, 7, 8, 10].

We therefore had three main goals in the
current research:

(0) To compare the results obtained when
four multivariable methods were applied
to the same sets of data.

(2) To vary the composition of the data sets,
so that the performance of the methods
could be tested for biologie factors

having different degrees of prevalence.

a

O25

11025176

re,

mh

L136