. . Comparison of Multivariable Methods for Prediction—! 343

of weight loss, and severe tumor effects. To be
classified as having severe tumor effects, a
patient had to have extensive or incapacitating
clinical manifestations, such as coma, jaundice,
or major functional impairment due to meta-
static lesions, rather than morphologic evidence
alone or relatively minor clinical manifestations
such as mild hemiparesis or laboratory abnor-
malities in liver function. The second variable,
co-morbid severity, referred to the presence of
severe additional diseases, beyond the lung
cancer itself, that would themselves be expected
to have poor prognosis. Examples of severe
co-morbid ailments are uncontrolled decompen-
sation of heart or liver, repeated previous
episodes of acute myocardial infarction, or re-
current episodes of overt stroke. The two types
of severity had previously been formed into a
composite ordinal variable, called functional
severity, which had been coded as 6, 1, 2 ta
reflect its absence or two ascending levels of
prognostic severity.

3. Chronometry. This variable indicated the
pre-zero duration of symptoms attributable or
possibily attributable to the lung cancer. For
patients who had had appropriate symptoms,
the pre-zero duration of the symptoms was
coded directly in months and tenths of months.
In earlier analyses [19, 20], we had found that
patients with only primary symptoms had better
survival rates if the symptoms had a long rather
than short pre-zero duration. The results were
consistent with the concept that slow growing
cancers often produce symptoms “slowly”, ie.
over an extended period of time.

4. Unresolved pneumonia. Although not a
formal component of the A-E stages, this at-
tribute was included here because we had previ-
ously noted (in unpublished bivariate analyses)
that it was often associated with high survival.

5. Chronic cough.
6. Chronic dyspnea.

7. Chronic pulmonary disease.
8. Active tuberculosis.

These four variables, each cited as present or
absent, were included in the analysis because
they represent diagnostic co-morbidity. Since
their clinical manifestations, particularly in
patients with primary symptoms, cannot readily
be distinguished from those caused by the tung
cancer, the diagnostic attribution of symptoms
is difficult in patients who have both lung cancer
and one or more of these four manifestations.
Although symptoms in such patients were listed

in the appropriate category of the symptom
pattern variable, we recognized that the symp-
toms might sometimes be due to the co-morbid
condition, rather than the cancer. For example,
hemoptysis might be caused by active tuberculo-
sis or chronic pulmonary disease in a patient
with a slow-growing asymptomatic lung cancer.
The diagnostically co-morbid conditions were
included so that their possible effects on both
classification of symptoms and prognosis could
be suitably accounted for in the analyses.

9. Extraneous iatrotropy. This variable re-
ferred to “lanthanic” paticnts [21] whose iatro-
tropic’ stimulus, i.e. the reason they had sought
medical attention, was unrelated to a sympto-
matic manifestation of lung cancer. In such
patients, the lung cancer was detected with a
screening or case-finding procedure conducted
as part of a “routine” diagnostic process. The
iatrotropic stimulus was either a complaint un-
equivocally attributable to a co-morbid disease,
rather than lung cancer, or a routine examin-
ation, performed for reasons such as new
employment or insurance. Patients who had
deliberately sought a “check-up” while ostens-
ibly asymptomatic were not included in this
category unless the check-up was done as part
of a regulatory scheduled program of periodic
examinations.

10. Anemia. This variable, classified as present
or absent according to appropriate criteria, was
included because we had previously noted (in
unpublished analyses) that it seemed to affect
survival.

1i, TNM stage. This is the classical morpho-
logic variable used in conventional prognostic
analyses. It was cited, according to standard
criteria [22], in the three ordinal stages of I, II,
and Ti.

12, Histologic type. This is another classical
morphologic variable in prognosis. It was cited,
in a nominal rating scale, according to the
histologic type of the cancer. Patients whose
only microscopic evidence of cancer was in a
Pap smear of sputum or other sites, rather
than in histologic tissue, were listed as cytology
only.

13, Age. The patient’s age was cited directly
in years.

14, Sex. Sex was classified as male or female.

15. Cigarette smoking. The amount of cus-
tomary cigarette smoking, before onset of symp-
toms referable to lung cancer, was classified in
five ordinal categories as none, slight (<1/2
pack/day), moderate (> 1/2 but <1 pack/day),

CTR SP-FILES o?5t61t

11025179