3 Clin Epidemiol Vol. 43, No. 4, pp. 339-347, 1990
‘Printed in Great Britain. All rights reserved.

A COMPARISON OF MULTIVARIABLE MATHEMATICAL
METHODS FOR PREDICTING SURVIVAL—I.
INTRODUCTION, RATIONALE, AND GENERAL
STRATEGY*

ALVAN R. FEINSTEIN, 'f} CAROLYN K. Wetts! and STEPHEN D. WALTER?

FYale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, U.S.A. and “Department of Clinical
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada

(Received 3G August 19859}

Abstract—This paper and the two following papers (Parts I-IIT} report an investigation of
performance variability for four multivariable methods: discriminant function analysis. and
linear, logistic, and Cox regression. Each method was examined for its performance in using
the same independent variables to develop predictive models for survival of a large cohort of
patients with lung cancer, The cogent biologic attributes of the patients had previously been
divided into five ordinal stages having a strong prognostic gradient. With stratified random
sampling, we prepared seven “generating” sets of data in which the five biologic stages were
arranged in proportional, uniform, symmetrical unimodal, decreasing exponential, increasing
exponential, U-shaped, or bi-modat distributions. Each of the multivariable methods was
applied to each of the seven generating distributions, and the results were tested in a separate
“challenge” set. which had not been included in any of the generating sets. The research was
intended not merely to compare the performance of the multivartable methods, but also to
see how their performance would be affected by different statistical distributions of the same
cogent biologic attributes. The results, which are presented in the second and third papers,
were compared for selection of independent variables and coefficients, and for accuracy in

. 895-4356,90 53.00 + 0.00
Copyright S 1990 Pergamon Press pic

fitting the generating sets and the challenge set.

Multivariable methods
Cox regression

INTRODUCTION

When multiple variables are evaluated for their
effects on a selected dependent variable, at least

“Supported in part by Grant Number HS 04101 from the
‘National Center for Health Services Research, OASH:
from The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation; and The
Council for Tobacco Research-U.5.A., Inc. as a Special
Project No. 135,

Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology; Director, Clini-
cal Epidemiology Unit and The Robert Wood Johnson
Clinical Scholars Program, Yale University School
of Medicine, New Haven. Connecticut. Senior Bio-
statistician, Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating
Center, Veterans Administration Medical Center, West
Haven; Connecticut.

$Reprint requests should be addressed to: Alvan R.
Feinstein, M.D., Yale University School of Medicine,
333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06510, U.S.A.

Regression methods
Discriminant function analysis

Linear regression —_—_Logistic regression

Predictive models

four procedures can be used for the statistical
analysis: multiple linear (or curvilinear) regres- .
sion, multiple logistic repression, discriminant
function analysis, and the proportional hazards
method that is often called Cox regression.
Each of these procedures has its own theor- :
etical distinctions in advantages and disad- . i
vantages for different phenomena that can be i
chosen as the “dependent” target variable.
Linear regression is theoretically best when the
target variable is expressed in dimensional (con-
tinuous) data,’ such as blood pressure; logistic
regression is most appropriate with a binary
variable, cited for an event such as alice or dead
at a specified time interval; discriminant func-
tion analysis has frequently been used for binary

339

¥
un
fen
ori
og

CTR SP-FILES 6

11025175