FUNCTION CONTROL SUBROUTINES

SUBROUTINE EJCA |

Activates/deactivates machine #1 ejector and resets the variable "TO" 80 that the computer will return to
EJCA when it Is once again time to activate/deactivate. The sequence of events in EJCA determines
machine #1 loading pattern and the number of putts from each cigarette before it fs replaced. The variable
*TQ", which retains the time the next machine #1 Injector function shoukd occur , Is also set here as is
"TA(Q)" which actuates torch #1. EJCA also periodically branches to subroutine 'SYNA which
resynchronizes the computer with carousel #1.

SUBROUTINE ICA
Activates machine #1 Injector then resets "TQ" so that the program ft return here and deactivate the
injector once a cigarette has loaded. “TQ" ts then deactivated until r¢ reset by subroutIne EJCA.

SUBROUTINE TCHA

Activates machine #1 torch #1 then resets "TA(Q)" 80 that the ss will retum here and deactivate the
torch once the cigarette has passed. "TA(Q)" Is then deactivated until reset by subroutine EJCA. The
variable "TB" which actuates torch #2 Is also set here.

SUBROUTINE TCHB
Activates torch #2 then resets "TB" so that the program will return here and deactivate torch #2 once the
cigarette has passed. "TB" Is then deactivated until reset by subroutine TCHA.

SUBROUTINE EJCB |

Activates or deactivates machine #2 ejector and resets the varlable "BC" 60 that the computer will return to
EJCB when tt Is once again time to activate/deactivate,. The sequence of events In EJCB determines
machine #2 loading pattern and the number of puffs from each cigarette before ht Is replaced. The variable
"TL" which retains the time the next machine #2 injector funotlon should ocour Is also set here. Machine
#2 has no computer controlled torch. EJCB periodically branches to broutine SYNB which
re-synchronizes the computer with carousel #2.

SUBROUTINE UCB
Activates machine #2 injector then resets "TL" so that the program wl return here and deactivate the
Injector once a cigaretie has loaded. "TI" Is then deactivated until reset by subroutine EJCB.

SUBROUTINE COMO
Records CO monitor readings. Switches sample stream between machines 60 that a single monitor can be

used.

SUBROUTINE SPLR
Determines when the filter and impactor samplers should be tumed ¢ on and off.

SUBROUTINE ARAM (Proposed)

Records aerosol monitor readings. Switches sample stream between machines so that a single monitor
can be used.

 

£480 fesos.