SMOKING MACHINE CONTROL PROGRAM NOTES

The current version of the 7317 exposure contro! program was written to contro! two Geneva smoking
machines which have been modified to allow the computer to disable thelr cigarette loader and unloader
functions. The program controls by momentarily enabling one of the load/unioad functions when that
function Is required and must “remember” the age and location of each cigarette throughout the exposure
to ensure that spent cigarettes are replaced at the proper time. The product smoking machine has two
igniters that are controlled by the computer In addition to the loader and unloader, the reference smoking
machine has none. The computer also times the duration of each exposure, automatically records CO
monitor readings, and controls filter and Impactor samples. A realtime aerosol monitor was recently
added to the exposure system and a subroutine may be written to record these readings also.

The control program has been written as a series of subroutines that fall into one of the following three
categories - EXPOSURE CONTROL, FUNCTION CONTROL, or SUPPORT. Following Is a brief
description of the subroutines.

EXPOSURE CONTROL SUBROUTINES:

SUBROUTINE PARM |
Loads required parameters fromthe data tables Into memory. |
|

SUBROUTINE LABL
Allows the operator to enter Information Into the program before the Inklation of an exposure. The

information may inchide which machine will be loaded with product and which with reference, the exposure
concentration, or #f ether machine will not be used during an exposure cycle. The computer will record this
Information In the exposure summation or will “ignore* a machine that was not used for exposure.

SUBROUTINE LODE

Loads the carousel following a prescribed pattern and maintains the carousel by replacing cigarettes after
they have puffed the required number of times. The computer leaves LODE when a “start exposure"
signal Is recelved and transfers control to subroutine EXPS, LODE functions through the following
“Function Control Subroutines"

* EJCA which controls machine #1 elector

* IJCA which controls machine #1 Injector

¢ TCHA which controls machine #1 torch #1 and li’s associated auxilliary puff port
* TCHB which controls machine #1 torch #2

+ EJCB which controls machine #2 ejector

« [JCB which contro! machine #2 injector

SUBROUTINE EXPS :
Continues to maintain the carousels by using the same subroutines used by LODE but also turns smoke
to the animals, takes measurements, and controls various samplers that are required during an exposure.
At the end of the prescribed exposure period exposure stops and the carousel unloads. Contro! then
transfers to subroutine SUMA. EXPS uses the following contro! subjoutines In addition to those listed
under LODE: |
* SPLR which controls the samplers
« COMO which records CO monitor readings
* ARAM will record aerosol monitor readings if we decide to add tt. |

|

|

i
I!

SUBROUTINE SUMA / |
Sums information and data from each exposure and prints a summation table. The program then resets
itself and walts for the next exposure cycle to bagin. |

|

2280 Seen