nwon
NIEROEATOe fe

AmBmMReEE ONLY

To: Cindi C. Davis N From: Anita B Phillips

Re: Toplines of Menthol Date: July 18, 1988
Migration Study: Interleaved
vs. Direct Application

Backqround/Purpose:

The Menthol Developmental Group is exploring the direct application of menthol
onto the carbon sheet as an alternative to the current interleaving process
(1). The level of menthol migration to the fuel source is one of the criteria
by which this decision will be made.

The Shelf Life Group assisted by evaluating and comparing menthol migra-
tion to the fuel sources of products incorporating the Interleaving vs. -the ~

direct Application processes.

Procedure:

 

Cartons of Menthol Alpha products 8Q40A (Interleaved) and 804Q0B (Direct) were
exposed to 75 F and 120 F conditions for five days. Menthol determinations
of all components were made at 0, 1, 3, and S days. An informal sensory test
was performed at Qay S. ,

Results and Discussion:

As shown in Attachment I., results from this study suggested menthol migration
to the fuel source is greater for products incorporating the interleaving vs.
direct application processes when these products are exposed to either 75 F

75 F or 120 F conditions.

However, it is known that the base sheet used to make 80490 had a lewer carbon
activity than the sheet used to make earlier successful prototypes, 8002C and
80128. In order to achieve a similar menthol load as the tobacco paper plug
‘plug used in these prototypes, 4 days of interleaving were required (vs.

2 days) for 840A... This resulted in excessive free menthol which would be
available for migration and possibly bias the results of this test of direct
vs. interleaving processes. Therefore, this study will be repeated with the
correct carbon activity base sheet.

Next Steps:

This study will be repeated w/o 7-18-88 using products containing tobacco paper
plugs with -!7% Carbon (with an activity 4.4 gms./ sq. metendn”

“

The ‘previous: plan outlined in-Carpenter, Menthol Development Activities, I0OM,
June 10, vas , will be followed.

BEsr

Copy

St2® fects