Ve
4 BROWN & WILLIAMSON
Tosacco
Marketing Research ~ Summary Report
Lucky Strike Expansion Test Market Monitor - Wave 2

BACKGROUND / OBJECTIVES
In February 1998, Lucky Strike expanded its test market into three additional markets, Chicago, New York and
Miami (referred to as the expansion markets). This expansion was in addition to San Francisco, Los Angeles/ San
Diego, and Sacramento (the Original markets).
The target segment for the Lucky Strike Filters was defined as free-thinking, independent-minded Male 21-30 Full
Revenue, non-menthol, non-ultra, and non-slims smokers who smoke primarily Marlboro and Camel.
Marketing Objectives
The marketing objectives are to create awareness, generate trial and conversion, and enhance Lucky Strike
imagery. The Marketing mix elements included:
« Advertising in ‘trendy’ magazines, alternative newspapers, and OOH
« In-Store Promotional programs like lighters, pre-pack shippers, mystery shopper, telemarketing B1G1F and

metal tins.
+ Direct Mail: Two direct mail offerings were made in 1998. The ‘Rooftop’ offer in April was exclusive to the

expansion markets while the ‘multi-sensory’ offer of August covered all the test markets.
« HORECA Bar promotions
Research Objectives
The primary focus of this study is to measure the impact of the Lucky Strike Advertising and Promotional programs
on Awareness, Image and Usage of Lucky Strike Filters/Lights among the target group and among a representative
sample of total smokers. Specific Research Objectives are to measure:
1. Awareness:

« Unaided Trademark, Advertising, Direct mail, and Promotion Awareness for Lucky Strike trademark

» Aided Brand and Advertising Awareness for Lucky Strike Filters, Lucky Strike Lights and Lucky Strike

trademark

» Source of Advertising Awareness
2. Product and User Image of Lucky Strike Filters and Lucky Strike Lights
3. Usage: MOB, ORB, Total Purchase, Free Trials, and Aided Trials
Method
The study was conducted in two-waves — April and October 1998. Telephone interviews were conducted in both the
original and expansion markets among two groups of smokers:
* arepresentative sample of total smokers who were recruited via random dialing of households; and
* atargeted sample of Male 21-30 year old Full Revenue, non-menthol, non-ultra, and non-slims smokers.
IASHARED\aka_res\Philip\Special Module Summaries\LS wave2.doc 1

318036427

 

I
W
rn
4
I

 

 

 

 

 

 

PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI