1. AWARENESS

* Unaided and Aided Awareness for Lucky Strike is growing more in the original markets than in the
expansion markets. It will appear that after a longer exposure to the LS marketing effort, Lucky Strike is ©
becoming more familiar in the original markets

+ Awareness Levels are generally more progressive among total smokers than the Target MASU30

+ Alf Awareness levels remain higher in both markets among ASU30 smokers than total Smokers

Unaided Awareness

Ail Unaided Awareness measures for Lucky Strike Trademark grew among total smokers in both the Original and

Expansion Markets. Among ASU30 Males, while there are some improvements in the Original markets, there was

an overall decline in the Expansion markets. Levels of All Unaided Awareness measures are higher among ASU30

smokers in both markets than among total smokers.

Aided Awareness

Aided Brand Awareness grew among both smoker groups in the original markets but declined among both smoker

groups in the expansion markets.

Aided Advertising awareness for LS Trademark grew among total smokers in both markets but declined among

Male ASU30 smokers in both markets.

Both Aided Brand and Advertising Awareness levels are higher among ASU30 smokers than total! Smokers.

Source of Advertising Awareness

Retail Stores and Direct Mail are declining, but they remain the most prominent source of awareness among Male

ASU30 smokers. Bars are the only source of advertising awareness that has grown consistently in both markets

among both groups of smokers.

2. BRAND IMAGE

Product image

Product Image attributes for Lucky Strike Filters have generally improved in both markets among both groups of

smokers. The brand is however still highly perceived as being harsh tasting and high in Tar.

Lucky Strike Lights’ product Image has also improved among the target MASU30 but declined on most attributes

among total smokers

User Image

User Image for Lucky Strike Filters were generally not as positive as the product image, But Lucky Strike Filter had

better ratings from the target MASU30 than Total smokers. Lucky Strike Lights’ User image has generally declined

in the original markets but improved in the expansion markets

3. BRAND USAGE

« Usage is growing among total smokers but declining among Target MASU30

« Usage levels are higher among MASU30

Total Usage: Total Usage grew among total smokers. This growth among total smokers is driven more by the

growth in purchase trials. Total Usage however declined among the target MASU30, among whom total usage is

influenced more by free trials.

Aided Trials: Among total smokers, Aided recall of Trials for Lucky Strike trademark declined in both Markets, but

Among Male ASU30, Aided Trials of Lucky Strike trademark declined in the original markets but increased in the

expansion markets.

(ASHARED\mid_res\Philip\Special Module Summaries\LS wave2.doc 2

318036428

PRODUC]

ED FROM Bé&W WEI

 

 

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I