THe WALL STREET JOURNAL
New York, New York
April 8, 1958

Tests With Mice Will Check Possible Link
Of Smoking, Lack of Niacin and Cancer

 

By Jerry Bisnop

Staff Reporter of TaB Wat STREET JOURNAL

SAN FRANCISCO—The smoldering contro-
versy over whether there is a connection be-
tween cigaret smoking and lung cancer is be-
ing stoked anew by cancer research scien-
lists. And, all ir all, it's proving to be a bad
time for mice and a confusing time for
smokers. .

4 San Francisco pharmacologist threw a
new fagot in the fire at a weekend press con-
ferencs, the resulls of which wero held for re-
levse until yesterday afternoon.

Dr. B. L. Freedlander of Mount Zion Hos:
pital and Medical Center said he has found
a relationship--in mice— between the [ack of an
Important vitamin and cancer. He now has an
experiment underway to find out if this may
be tied in with a substance found in tobacco.

Dr. Freedlander's announcement comes on
top of a disclosure a few days earlier by sci-
enttatg at New York University that they had
proved that tobacco tar “unquestionably”? con-
tning a cancer-causing substance. However, ef-
forts to prove that it can cause lung cancer
have met with fa'‘lure.

Third Scientist's Testa

And a third scientist in Maryland, also
working with mice, suggests that giving up
smoking to stave off lung cancer may increase
@ person's chances of getting some other type
of cancer.

Dr. Freedlander, as had the other acien-
lista, disclosed the details of his experiments
on mice to a group of newsmen now touring
the nation’s cancer research centera under the
guidance of the American Cancer Society.

So far, the only evidence that smoking has
4 connection wilh lung cancer are statistical
studies made of groups of smokers and non-
smokers. The sludies show that smokers have
a higher incidence of lung cancer than non-
smokers and that groups of heavy smokers
have a higher incidence of lung cancer than
average or light smokers. Since the sludies
were released in 1954, researchera have been
striving to find laboratory proof that smoking
can cause lung cancer. The proof, say the re-
searchers, has not yet been found.

Scakesmen for [he fobacea infuairy howe
emphasized that a slatistical connection daeo
hot establish a cause and effect relatsonsarp.
they also note that many cther possibly can.
cer-causing cOmpounds are inhaled particu.
tarly In cities.

Experiment With Nlocin

In his experiment, Dr. Freedlander safd that
he and an aasociate. Frederic A. French,
have keen feeding a group of mice a diet de-
ficient in Niacin, one of the B vitamins.
Another group of mice was given a normal
diet. The mice were bred especially to be
susceptible to a type of lung cancer—a type
not found in humans—and both groups were
given a dose of cancer-causing chemicals to in-
sure that they developed cancers,

The mice on the niacin deficient diet devel-
oped an average of 19 tumors each, Dr. Freed-
lander said. The mice on the normal diet
developed only 11 per mouse, strong evidence
that a lack of niacin increases the suscepti-
bility to cancer, he explained.

Tue two are now carrying their experiment
further to check any connection with smoking.
They have found a substance in tobacco which
is chemically similar to niacin. ‘This substance,
called 3-AP, can be converted to useful niacin
in the liver, Dr. Freedlander explained. But,
he theorizea, if 3-AP is inhaled It apparently
by-passes the liver and !s loose in the body as
@ false vitamin which living cells may confuse
with the true vitamin.

Does the 3-AP sneak into a cell posing as a
vitamin and then sabotage the cell causing
eancer? Dr. Freedlander says he has still an-
other experiment under way to find out.

Test With Vapor

He is giving the 3-AP tn vapor form—not
amvuke-—for the mice to inhale to see if this
increases the number of lung cancers in the
rodents.

“We haven't proved anything yet,”’ he cau-
tions. ‘‘There may be no relation between mice
lung cancers and human lung cancera."’ And,
he adda, ''It may be just a coincidence that it
is a lung cancer the mice develop.”

Newsmen, many of them smoking. re-
peatedly asked the scientist if thia meant it
would help smokers to take niacin tableta in
the hope it would offset the effects of 3-AP
in cigaret smoke. He steadfastly refused to
jump to any such conclusion, emphasizing his
experiments were on mice and had proved
nothing yet except that mice who do not get

HTB0037318

enough niacin are more susceptible to lung
cancer.

The reason for using mice, he cxplains, is
that, they are the best indicators of whether
a& compound could be carclogenle (cancer
causing).

A New York University scientist, Dr. Nor-
ton Nelson, told the newsmen that “unques-
Uonably there is something carclogenic in to-
bacco tar, thought it is very weak." He bases
his conclusion on experiments where the skins
of mice were painted with heavy doses of
tobacco tar over a long period of time. They
developed skin cancer.

He and another N.Y-.U. scientist note, how-
ever, that after a year of using a new method
of knducing lung cancer in animals they have
failed to produce any lung tumors with tobacco
tar.

Researchers Frustrated

The fact that they have not beer able to
cause cancer wi.h tobacco tar anywhere except
on the skin of a mouse has frustrated many of
the researchers. On the smoking question
however, Dr. Irena Koprowska, a pathologist
at the Hahnemann Medicai College and Hospi-
tal in Philadelphia, told the newsmen a few
days ago that she had produced cancer of the
cervix in mice with tobacco tar. Tc do so, she
had t¢ gently the tar to mice five times a week
over a pericd of 10 months. ‘This still leaves
uhanswered Ue question of whether tar will
cause cance? In the lung.

at the University of Maryland. Dr. Frank
H. J. Figge. has come up with another alrange
hypothesis about smoking and lung cancer. He
has been working on several experiments on
the susceptibitty of mice to cancer, including
cross-breeding of several different mice strains
to check a theory that obesity increases sus-
ceptibility to liver cancer.

In one experiment, Dr. Figge says he found
that when he suppressed the susceptibility to
breast cancer the mice became more suscep-
tible to leukemia. His conclusion:

“We do not know enough about the variation
in cancer-susceptidility of human subjects to
advise them to give up smoking in the attempt
to decrease the incidence of lung cancer, for
we do not know for sure that giving up smoking
may not slimulate factors associated with sus:
ceptibility to other forms of cancer.” He adds,
with pa grin at smoking newsmen, “If I smoked,
I wouldn't give it up now."