-4e

McKusick, in discussing four major types of cardiovascular disease,
states:

“There is a clinical impression partially corroborated by
Statistical and genetic investigations, that heredity plays a role
in... atherosclerosis, including coronary artery disease; hypertension,
rheumatic fever, (and therefore rheumatic heart disease} and
congenital malformations of the cardiovascular system."

B. Lipid Metabolism

Genetic factors in determining serum phospholipid levels and serum
cholesterol levels are mentioned in two independent papers among those being
submitted. A third paper reaches the interesting conclusion that hyper-
cholesterolemic xanthomatosis is inherited by simple mendelian dominance.
Since this condition may be a precursor of coronary artery disease, it is of
potential significance.

McDonough et al., in a study of twins, clearly showed that genetic
influences were operative in affecting variation in cholesterol level.

C. Hypertension and Atherosclerosis

There are several commmications included on this subject from a
genetic point of view.

Miall and Oldham find evidence that the arterial tension is a
continuously variable characteristic and that relationship in arterial pressure
between relatives and propositi indicated "graded and polygenic inheritance."
Familial grouping of arterial hypertension and of atherosclerosis is also
reported by Miasnikov. Perera, in discussing these diseases » States that
there is a possibility that ".,.hereditary factors leading to variations in
individual susceptibility may be all important."

Shanoff et al. studied 102 male survivors of myocardial infaretion
with atherosclerosis of the “essential type." Coronary heart disease was
more prevalent in the parents and in the siblings » especially the brothers
of the coronary, patients. Smoking and alcohol consumption was similar in the
coronary group. and in the controls.

Sir Robert Platt differentiates between secondary hypertension,
which he does not consider "in general hereditary," and essential hypertension,
which he calls "a specific inherited disorder of middle age."

D. Multiple Factors

Perhaps one of the most interesting and extensive series of studies
is that of Dr. Caroline B. Thomas. In a number of papers covering work of a
decade or more she has given a fairly comprehensive picture of a complex
problen,

Thomas recognized that “identification of groups susceptible to
coronary and hypertensive heart disease is necessary for...testing preventive
measures." She has studied, in a population of medical students
"hypercholesterol levels, overweight, hyperblood pressures, hyperheart rates ;
body build, hyperreactivity to colds and exercise.”