- 3-

A somewhat similar type of comparison was made between Finnish
iumberjacks and the other male population of the same area. The lumberjacks
(who tend to smoke more than the general population) were engaged in the
greatest physical activity and had significantly fewer electrocardiographic
changes indicating past myocardial ischemia.

(>) Four studies deal with comparisons between more and less active
occupational groups in England or in the United States. Each
study reaches the conclusion that the risk of cardiovascular disease is less
in the more physically-active groups than in the less active.

(c) The relatively high risk of those engaged in sedentary occupa-
. tions, independent of smoking habits is emphasized in two papers.

(a) The immediate effects of exercise in relation to smoking is
. Yreported in one paper. The authors conclude that “habitual
smokers tended to show a faster adjustment to exercise and a faster rate of
recovery than non-smokers.”

Genetics
A. General Comments

In considering the genetic factors as one type of influence in etiology
and/or progress of eardiovascular diseases, it is desirable to bear in mind
certain possible characteristics of these factors and the effect of these upon
their detection, identification and analysis.

First among the probable characteristics may be mentioned complexity.
In any effect wpon incidence or progress of cardiovascular diseases in adults
it is almost certain the complex interaction between the genetic potentialities
of the individual and his environmental experiences, both external and internal,
will be involved. The direct, simple genetic control of adult response as
indicated by classical mendelian results will be the very rare exception.

Far more frequent and more difficult of analysis will be the increased
tendency to cardiovascular diseases as detected by higher correlation between
disease in one or both parents and offspring or between siblings. Paul has
shown an association between incidence of coronary disease in the offspring
and early death of the father.

A paper by BUSk states:

",.ein so far as metabolism is concerned people differ
genetically as mech as in physical traits... Looking at heredity and
heart disease has taken us from congenital malformations to nutrition.
What ties the diverse fields and many others together are the
fundamental principles of biological variation...”