-2.

thet smoking probably does not contribute to progression of the atherosclerotic
process. The association of cigarette smoking with mortality from cardiovascular
disease, which nevertheless persists, is therefore difficult to interpret. The
hypothesis of selective constitutional differences may present one possibility.
Another hypothesis that has been advanced is that smoking may somehow be
involved in the still obscure processes by which acute episodes are precipitated
in persons with advanced underlying atherosclerotic disease.

Another puzzling observation is the great difference, epidemiologically,
between cigarette smokers on the one hand and smokers of pipes and cigars on the
other.

Diet

This is a controversial topic that has produced a voluminous
literature.

There appears to be quite general agreement that lipid metabolism
is somehow involved in the atherogenesis which underlies much cardiovascular
disease. However, until a more definite pattern emerges which can successfully
integrate such factors as the kinds and amounts of fats consumed, the inborn
metabolic differences of individuals » physical activity in relation to amounts
and kinds of food consumed and others » there appears to be little prospect of
determining whether dietary factors and smoking habits are interrelated or of
evaluating their relative significance, if any, in the etiology or aggravation
of these diseases. (See reviews by Stamler, Keys and others.)

Therefore only a few excerpts from papers which may be of possible
interest are appended. .

Bronté-Stewart, studying reported differences in the relative
incidence of ischemic heart disease among the three major ethnic groups of the
Capetown area, has reported evidence of an association between smoking habits
and habitual dietary fat intake. He has Suggested that smoking may exercise
an inddrect influence by modifying food selection through effects on the taste
sense. A subsidiary study by Bront#-Stewart's group has reported that smokers
seen to show a diminished sensitivity to bitter and may have a relative
preference for salty, spiced and high-fat foods. These latter observations
have not yet been confirmed or generally accepted, but further taste-sensitivity
studies in relation to smoking are being conducted at present by other investi-
gators.

Lack of Exercise

Lack of exercise is regarded by many authors as an important factor
in development of heart disease. Several of these papers are mentioned below:

(a) wo independent studies of Alpine populations report
independence of dietary, smoking and alcohol-use habits from
incidence of cardiovascular disturbances. Their record in this respect was
distinctly better than that of nearby urban inhabitants. The authors consider
the difference in physical activity to be of real importance.