-5-

A definite genetic influence as measured by parent-offspring
resemblance has been detected. Moreover, the subjects presumably predisposed
to cardiovasculer disease on the basis of family history as reflected by these
factors, showed an increased tendency to be smokers.

She has also contrasted smokers and non-smokers among different blood
groups and has found a significant difference in blood group distribution
between white male smokers and non-smokers.

Emotional-Mental Stress

It may be argued that “mental” and “emotional” are not synonymous
and that they should not be combined in.any discussion of stress in relation to
cardiovascular diseases.

It seems unnecessary to argue that matter in the present presenta-
tion. The material appended provides a sample of the sort of date that appear
to justify the general concept that stress 9 Or some constitutionally determined
patterns of reaction to stress, whether emotional, mental or both are factors
to be considered in the etiology and/or progressive course of cardiovascular
disease.

Excerpts are appended related to the following:

A. Actual Biochemical Effects of Stress
— Se ee chemicas sitects of Stress

Lipoid Metabolic Changes: These have been recorded, under stress

of various sorts, by Hammartsen et al. » Thomas et al., Wertlake et
al., Cardon and Gordon, Dreyfuss and Czaczker, Drundy and Griffin,
Rosenman et al., Kitchen, Cathey et al., and Wolf et al.

ertensive Changes or Symptoms: These were recorded following
stress by Miasnikov, Lipman, and by Hokanson and Burgess.

Other Cardiovascular es: Stress is reported to shorten the
recalcified plasma clotting time and increases plasma fibrinolytic
activity according to Ogston et al.

In healthy male subjects, anger and
anxiety increase the coronary blood flow according to Adsett et al.

Some of these effects have been shown to be related to the discharge
of epinephrine from the adrenal gland.

B. Relation of Stress to Cardiovascular Disease
ern AE OVES CULAR Disease

Stress as ea contributory factor to cardiovascular disease in
general has been implicated in papers by Weiss et al., Sigler, Friedman
et al., and Fisher.

Various arrhythmias and increased arterial pressure in patients
with essential hypertension and in normals have followed stress according
to Wolf. Congestive heart failure is connected with stress by Chambers
and Reiser, while coronary heart disease is affected according to
Russek, and to Pearson and Joyce.