I. MULTIFACTORIAL ETIOLOGY

Because of the problem of interrelationship, certain of the
suspected factors other than smoking will be mentioned briefly. The
objectives in doing so are:

(a) Yo emphasize the need for developing a perspective that
will lead to the eventual evaluation of the various
suspected factors as being independent, correlated,
cumulative, antagonistic or synergistic agents in the
origin and/or progressive development of cardiovascular
disease.

(b) To indicate possible variables in connection with which
smokers of various types and degrees may be contrasted
with non-smokers or with those who have discontinued
smoking for different periods of time.

Multifactorial Studies

Several multifactorial prospective studies » particularly those of
the Framingham group, of the Albany group, of Stamler and of Oglesby Paul have
endeavored to reach a profile description of the coronary-prone individual.
For such purposes, it has been necessary to employ available clinical
definitions of the various cardiovascular conditions, in order to relate
incidence epidemiologically to constitutional and environmental factors. In
general, the lack of autopsy data has been recognized as a serious handicap
to precise description and classification.

Some degree of success has been attained in reaching a profile
description. Hereditary factors seem to be quite generally recognized.
Epidemiologically, a rather persistent association between prevailing high
serum cholesterol levels and risk of developing cardiovascular disease has
been reported. High prevailing blood pressures » overweight, cigarette smoking,
left ventricular hypertrophy, low vital capacity, history of shortness of
breath, history of peptic ulcer, history of chest discomfort, A-V nicking of
the fundi, and heavy use of coffee have been reported also to show various
degrees of association. Combinations of certain of these factors are
associated with higher risk in some reports, but not in others.

Of course, no studies of this kind can be used alone to determine
whether any one or any combination of the measured factors actually contri-
butes causally to production of disease or whether they tend rather to reflect
the existence of some constellation of more basic congenital predisposing
characteristics which result in higher disease incidence. For example,
voluntary cessation of cigarette smoking may itself reflect selective
constitutional differences. The inevitable uncertainties inherent in these
studies are recognized as being a severe handicap to design of effective
preventive measures.

It is of interest that cigarette smoking does not appear to be
associated with development of chronic angina. Since this disease is
considered to be & consequence of general atherosclerotic narrowing of the
coronary arteries, this lack of association has been interpreted as indicating