Merit, and I see a B&H King as filling that void& We can’t pick up many
more of the younger nonmenthol smokers since we already have over 80 percent
of the 18-24 year-old smokers of nonmenthol 80-85s, but we can hope to picks
up the switchers: out ef Marlboro as well] as°Smokers of competitive brand&:
particularily in the critical 35-54 age group@ Why this group is critical I
will explain later.

To decide what the product should be like, we need to know why smokers
switch from Marlboro Red. Some of us had thought that much of the switching
Was because Marlboro Red was perceived as having too young an image for
~ people as they move into their late 20s, so Frank Ryan has been conducting
7 interviews to determine-why former smokers of Marlboro Red switched from it.
We The image issue was a nice theory, but it (does) not appear to fit the facts.
> °,, What does seem to be a major factor is that-Marlboro Red and Winston are too
©" strong or harsh This probably explains why there is also quite a bit of
switching to menthols among people in that age group. People do not know
much about tar numbers but they do know harshness when they feel it. Thus,
while I do not think a B&H King should be any lower in delivery level than
Marlboro, I do think it should be smooth The fact that the pack is gold,
rather than red, will probably help convey the notion of smoothness or
mildness.

Who Doesn’t Smoke Our Menthol Kings?

Another area of opportunity, as we well know, is the entire menthol king
market. This, too, is a perfect opportunity for a B&H King: Blacks are
much more heavily represented among smokers of menthol kings than among
smokers of nonmenthols, and B&H already has a good following among black
menthol smokers. {The problem has been that—@mstio very poorly among young
males, black or white. A k&ng°S¥ZemgB8H menthol would thus make the brand
more appealing among the young menthol smokers <j

  
  
 

Differences Between Our Smokers and Theirs

 

Figure 4 shows the distribution by age, sex, and race of smokers of our 80-
85mm brands and smokers of competitive brands, separately for menthols and
nonmenthols. On the whole, our nonmenthol smokers are slightly more heavily
male than those who do not smoke a PM brand, but what is most striking,
though well known, is that Une} ere"So7MGch. yeungér@ Blacks, of course, are
not well represented in either nonmenthol group. Such is not the case with
the menthols: S8¥acks account: for over half of all 18-24 year-6ld -smokers<oR

menthol3 Kings and for nearly half of the menthol king smokers: aged 25 to 34@ iv
Our smokers and smokers of competitors’ 80-85s are not very different in or
terms of socio-economic variables. In terms of educational attainment, on pa
an age-adjusted basis, fewer of our smokers thansmokers of competitive aS
brands have not completed high school, and more of our males but fewer of __ a
our females have completed colfege. FRO dstrikutions ‘by income are TiKoSF C3
identicals pub

op)

INS