ee

ae

PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: - Mr. Leo Meyer Date: April 21, 1987
From: » Myron Johnston

Subject: . B&H King

At the March 13 meeting of the Benson and Hedges Task Force, I said I would
look into the demographics of smokers of 80-85s who do not smoke our brands.
I don’t think there is anybody in the company more enthusiastic than I about
the prospect of a B&H King (especially a menthol), and I have been pushing
the idea at every opportunity for three or four years. Having said that, I
have to add a caveat: We have to be careful that we don’t shoot ourselves
in the foot. We already own a good share of the nonmenthol 80-85 market.

Who Smokes Our Brands?

First a little background information. Figure 1 shows the total number of
smokers, and the number who smoke a Philip Morris brand, by age of smoker
and by length and type (menthol or nonmenthol) of cigarette. For all four
length-type categories, @QMsSHaF SSF ‘market 3s“ highest-anong the youngest#
smokers and declines with age. Clearly this is the best position to be in,
since there is a tendency for people to, stick within a brand name. This,
combined with the increase in the absolute number of 18-34 year-olds from
1964 to 1984, is what fueled our growth in market share.

 

RarsAe! 22

Figure 2 shows the total number of smokers of nonmenthol 80-85s and the
number who smoke one of our brands, by age, sex, and race. Figure 3 shows
the same data for menthols. I have deliberately put them both on the same
scale to show the relative importance of menthols and nonmenthols among the
various groups. Females are much more likely than males to smoke 100-120s,
and, among males, blacks are more likely than whites to smoke 100-120s up to
age 40, when the reverse becomes true. That explains the sex differences in
the number of smokers of kings, and_some of the race differences. Also, as
I have shown on many occasions, B¥eeks<avé mich wore Tikely than. whites £03
enoke “a henthol&

Who Doesn’t Smoke Our Nonmenthol 80-85s?

The areas vertically shaded in blue in Figures 2 and 3 can be considered
windows of opportunity, with the size of the area directly proportional to
the size of the opportunity. Quxcgreatest opportunities for nonmenthols.
‘exist among white males 25 to 54 and white females 35: to 44.4 Tt is inthe
‘25-34 age group that males abandon Marlboro Red. Many go to Marlboro Lights
and, in the past, many went to Merit. Now they have quit switching to

r
¢
;