om

~We'do slightly better than the competition in Nielsen A and B counties (andy
correspondingly worse in C and D counties). Regionally, we do best in News
England and, not surprisingly, in Marlboro Country -- West North Central ,@
West South Central, Mountain, and Pacific. We do poorly in the South ¥
Atlantic states (Winston and Salem country); not very well, especially amon
females, in the East North Central states (Salem and Kool);#and worst of al
in the East South Central states (Winston and Kool }g _

What Brands Are They Smoking?

The next two charts show the number of smokers of competitive nonmenthols
(Figure 5) and menthols (Figure 6), by age, sex, and race, and by brand
currently smoked. Clearly Winston and Camel smokers are the ones we need&&o
go for among nonmenthol ismokers§ but I have some reservations as to how well

smokers of those brands would accept the classy pack proposed for the B&H
King.

In the case of menthols, I see the target group as being black Newporta@
smokers? As I noted above, B&H Menthols already have a good following among
blacks, and the availability of a B&H Menthol King should attract even more
of them. It should also appeal to young white females, particularly if the

cigarette is smooth. In these markets I see the classy pack as a definite
plus.

Because we so dominate the nonmenthol 80-85 market, I would not be surprised
if the menthol B&H King made more of a contribution than the nonmenthol
version. This certainly would not be a bad thing, and it is, after all, the
reason I made a pitch§for a B&H Menthol King in the first places

A_ B&H King and the Changing Demographics of the Smoking Population

The young smokers who currently constitute such an important part of our
market will continue to decline in importance in relation to the total
cigarette market. Figure 7 shows the age distribution of the U.S.
population from 1960 to 1986 and the Census Bureau projections through the
year 2000. Since smoking prevalence is nearly the same for all age groups
through age 54, the four lower bands on the chart represent something of a
proxy for the distribution of smokers under age 54. The importance of 18-24
year-olds relative to the total population aged 18 to 54 peaked in 1976 when
they accounted for 26.5 percent of all people aged 18 to 54. By 1986, 18-24
year-olds accounted for 22.0 percent of this group, and in 1996 they will
account for only 16.8 percent. The younger smokers also smoke fewer
cigarettes per day than their elders, so they have always accounted for a
smaller proportion of sales than of smokers. In 1976, 18-24 year-obds
accounted for about 16 percef— of all cigarettes sold in the U.S. By 198%
this had declined to 13.3 percegt, and, if current smoking patterns
continue, they will account for only ten percené of sales by 1996¢g

pTEZZVSS0%