1971, Mr. Hoyt for CTR approved a publication on “High Nicotine Toler-
ance of Syrian Golden Hamsters."

On April 2, 1972, an interim report was submitted (with hamsters then
having been exposed from 32 to 69 weeks). Observations were reported
on clumping of macrophages in the lung, on mortality (which was low),
on body weight, on organ weights, on triglyceride levels, on blood CO
level and on isolated histological observations in the respiratory tract.
Samples for viral studies were sent Dr. Huebner on April 21, 1972.

On August 23, 1972, we suggested that studies on physiological parameters
(breath sound profiles) be included in the evaluation of smoke- exposed .
hamsters. This was never done.

On October 10, 1972, we suggested new studies after completion of the
current work, including studies on the gas phase, ‘studies on the effects
of sex, dose-response studies, determination of co- carcinogenic activity
of smoke, studies in different lines of hamsters, including one line known
to be resistant to sec. polycyclic hydrocarbons, increased rate of
exposure to smoke, effects of different housing (singly) of the animals.

In September (September 12), Dr. Hockett approved publication of
"Pulmonary Histopathology of Hamsters Exposed to Smoke" (Society of
Toxicology, March 18-22, 1973).

In January 1973 a site visit by Drs. Hockett, Lisanti, Charles Sommers
and W.U. Gardner took place.

In February the question of Sendai infection (memo from Dr. Hockett, 3
February 14, 1973) was again brought up. The virus was described by
Huebner and associates as an interferon inducer which could thus have

an effect upon chemical carcinogenesis. Since there was never any valid

evidence of Sendai virus in our hamsters, this "concern appears in

retrospect most regrettable.

On February 7, 1973, Dre Homburger wrote to Mr. Jacob of Lauterstein
and Lauterstein, lawyers to the tobacco industry, pointing out the
indecisiveness of CTR on continuation of smoke inhalation experiments
and his reasons why this appeared to him to be against the interests of
the cigarette industry. He was told that the first and essential step was
the appropriate consideration by the CTR of the research which he was
doing as well as of that he proposed to doe

At Dr. Gardner's suggestion, transplants of smoke- exposed larynxes
into compatible hamster cheek pouches were made in February 1973 to

~3-

CTR CONTRACTS OO5500