be broader, albeit with less detail, and we would need to add additional
dimensions some of which are suggested below.

A very tentative outline might go something like this:

e Start with an explanation of recent and anticipated issues including but not
limited to:
e Ingredient by-brand disclosure and consumers' need to know
* Constituent testing and implications thereof
e Biotechnology issues and the differences between the Euro and US
approaches
« Regulation of tobacco as a drug
We should look for non-tobacco issues where possible.

« Next, examine some trends and their implications on regulation, to wit:

e The increasingly multilateral nature of regulations, ie, EU's Flynn
proposal and the WHO Convention.

e The contraction of the commercial side of the tobacco business
(BAT/RTI, JTI/RIRD; food and beer might be worth looking into for
points of comparison and/or non-PM businesses just to see what the
impact has been on regulation. (We should probably do this anyway.)

e The trend away from a monolithic tobacco industry, although on its
face this is inconsistent with tobacco industry contraction. "Big
Tobacco" has hurt us. But it is the marketplace and competitive
realities that may be driving this too. For example, note the
disaffection with industry ingredients lists and the clearly separate
company positions on smoking and health issues. This shift may
intrigue the food and beer businesses which have had different
experiences with competitors regarding regulatory issues.

e The presentation would close to explain the new tone and approach being
taken on two fronts. First, internally we could explain by way of allusion -
rather than be didactic about it - WRA's mandate to ensure communications
factions are accurate, not misleading, consistent with policy and reviewed by
departments with relevant expertise. Second, we can show how strategies on
WRA issues are in alignment with four strategic directions.

2. "Courtesy of Choice" and "Traditional Hospitality" could be presented. The
focus would not need to be too much on the program per se given the extensive
awareness of it throughout PMI, although some explanation would be needed
for the food and beer employees. We should however address the program's
geographic growth and scope, as well as its principles. The latter would provide
an opportunity to communicate to Corporate Affairs worldwide the Company's
position on accommodation and the role of ventilation. The presentation should
focus on how the program has for a long time supported the principles

LE689ZE907