PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

TO:
FROM:

SUBJECT:

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017

Ms. Denise F. Keane DATE: June 16, 1999
Matthew N. winoemZ

1999 Worldwide Corporate Affairs Conference

Denise,

You asked for topics that WRA might present at the upcoming Worldwide
Corporate Affairs Conference in November. These biannual conferences bring
together all Corporate Affairs staff at virtually all levels and from all operating
companies worldwide. The Conference tries to expose Corporate Affairs staff
from the different businesses to each other and to create a sense of common
purpose.

Traditionally, presentations range from the tactical (a proposed PM-USA
workplace accommodation plan) to the strategic (emerging issues tracking),
attempt to capture activities across all the business units both domestically and
internationally and also include some stretch themes, such as how technology
will affect the future. A highlight of the 1997 conference was a techno-futurist
from M.LT.

While it would be helpful to know the "theme" for the 1999 conference, my point
is that while almost any topic could find a home at past conferences, the more a
presentation could fill more than one bill the better, i.e, worldwide rather than
just USA, cutting across businesses rather than tobacco alone, and so forth. My
guess would be that the theme of this year's conference will center around the
new four strategic directions - alignment, constructive engagement, image and
proactive dialogue - in an attempt to cohere all PM Corporate Affairs staff with a
shared vision.

Given past conferences and my assumption for this year's theme, I recommend
two potential WRA presentations: New Regulatory Engagement and Courtesy
of Choice. Both would “fit" as examples of initiatives the Company is taking that
are consistent with the new strategic direction.

1. "New Regulatory Engagement" (working title) would implicitly explain
WRA's role in the context of explaining emerging regulatory issues and new
approaches to working with the regulatory community. This topic is an
outgrowth of your recent 2RF presentation. However, the issue scope should

@

FEGE9ES90