*

—- \Doing a‘

 

    

for non-smokers.

Smokeless
cigarette
could be

a hot item

ay MIKE MIKE DAVIS
e-News baingus Wier

In (978, when Gerry Mazur heard
that his collegue, Phil Ray, was work:
On a “strokeless cigarette,*~he’
Ray mus have surely gone off

      
 
 
       

 

  
    

 

 
    
     
   
 
  

Mazur and Ray, who are chairman
and president of ATP, respectively, now
to enter their smokeless

 
 
   

     
           
     
 

Ee ' " Phete by SCOTT SINES .
eeaeie on mune er a ane ADVANCED TOBACCO PRODUCTS’ GERRY MAZUR AT THE COMPANY PLANT |
ton could not have worked out beter. “++ "what we've hed to de is opply highstech fo an ancient industry’ D
sive ameking “ot the Mh nt * He has stressed since the beginning — tion is unlimited,” Mazur said, Vo nthe ett is ari Urs.

  
  

retle smoke by non-smokers, led tal lt Favor {a only 1 percent of the “We can oe Dnce te te is dope,
i die market wl this one ais rettes first i

  

       

nes is oundwork i 4
lution and then packaged like a ciga: chine with 256 employees: this is neither oe atin, . ets
rete, The user vaporizes the nleotine , pital nor a liborintensive bus. Marketing strategy, .
when drawing on a Favor and the jects the cigarettes with the nicotine #0- ness, . ‘ ‘
user’s craving for nicotine is satisfied. ution is an adaptation of a machine = The
Ss in his new manufacturing used to load ink into peng: about j ’ then gr
site in North San Antonio, Mazur as- ¢ t evident pie to Fun. : Of: the other major
timated Sid bulioe clears market In. addition to production-line cups We :
sessed position A .

“Last year was the 100th annive: ment, computers are evident in the pe used ag test subjects ple” met with . possible representatives in
cigaretie® 1 : ’

 

    
     
        
     
    

of the

      
 

bec y Denmark, He is
a who iol has changes fy culling tobages nerd out 200 ‘million of Favors rettes will be aold in three cre Scorer Sout the Tact that ne interna. «

fee SMOKE Poge Nt

 
 

E
§
a
;
;
a

 
 

&
cS
rs
=
wD
on
a