—= Chata J Khem, A) ar, Ti. ae / YW, / J i a / whoa? tene¥! Ap

L

MEMORANDUM
URGENT

TO: All Vice Presidents
All Department Heads
All Records Coordinators

FROM: F. A. Burke
Vice President Law & General Counsel

DATE: May 26, 1994

RE: Retain_All Documents

 

Under an order in litigation, the Company is required to retain literally all documents regarding certain
subjects.

Effective immediately, Brown & Williamson employees are required to retain indefinitely all documents
relating to (1) the manufacturing, testing and composition of tobacco, tobacco products, paper, filter or
any other material contained in, relating to or used in the manufacture, testing and composition of tobacco
products or (2) the nicotine content of tobacco, tobacco products (cigarettes, pipe tobacco, smoking
tobacco, smokeless tobacco, filler, reconstituted tobacco, expanded tobacco, etc.) and cigarette smoke.

Please note that this requirement under the court order overrides the provisions of our Records
Management Program. One effect of overriding the Program is that the order requires us to retain

relevant copies and temporary documents. The other effect concerns electronic documents.
we

Under the order, the term “document” means every form of recorded information, whether handwritten
or printed, and including electronic information as follows:

videotape . . . phonograph record, tape record, mechanical or electronic sound recording
or transcript thereof, retrievable data (whether carded, taped, coded, electrostatically or
electromagnetically recorded, or otherwise), or other data compilation from which
information can be obtained, including (but not limited to) . . . computer storage tapes,
computer storage cards or discs... .

Thus, all such electronic information that is relevant to the subject matter is required to be retained
indefinitely. If you have any questions about how to save electronic information, please call MIS.

 

For your information, the litigation involved is the Castano case in Louisiana. As you may know from
media reports, a group of plaintiffs law firms has filed a complaint alleging a class action against the
industry on behalf of smckers who claim to be addicted. Plaintiffs obtained an order which froze the
companies’ documents at a time when Brown & Williamson was not a party to the case and there are
good arguments that the order does not apply to us. After careful consideration, we have decided that
the best course for the Company is to comply,

/sa

566930064
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEI

 

 

 

 

 

I
W
rn
4
I