Since 1968, when the Sun Your emphasis on
Oil Company merged with flexibility, is this what
Sunray DX, the company has led to the forming of Sun’s
been implementing some bold stand-apart operating units?

and far-reaching changes to

L st It’s a big part of it. The new structure
better cope with the realities of

does allow for flexibility in terms of cre-

     
  
    
  
 

    
  
    
 

today. ating multiple options for new businesses
Most visible has been the we enter, and businesses we've been in for
a long time.
name change to Sun Company, We're not dealing here with two years
Inc., and the accompanying or five years. We're concerning ourselves

with getting the company into a position
of flexibility so it can exercise its options
over time horizons of a decade, two decades,
and longer.

restructuring from an integrated
petroleum company to a diver-
sified management company
made up of 14 stand-apart oper-

  
   
  

   
  
 
  
  

 
 
  
   
 

 

  
   

     
   

     

  
 
  
   
 

      
   
   

   
   
   
   
  
    
 
 
   

ating units. OPERATING UNITS OF SUN COMPANY
», ? _
What's happened so far? Sun Production Company
Here, Chairman H. Robert 5 tn 9 Cas Company
an oration Company
Sharbaug answers. Sunoco Energy Development Co.
Greae Canadien Oil Sands Limited
. un Oil Company Limite
What's behind the changes Sun Petroleum Products Company
you’re making at Sun? Sunmark Industries

Sun Pipe Line Company
Sun International, Inc.

Sun Enterprises Group
Sun Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company

perry-Sun, Inc.
Administrative Services Group

We're going at two things at once.
One is increasing the flexibility of Sun,
the parent company. The other is opening
up new opportunities for our individual
companies and managers to grapple with
and influence their own destinies.

How’s it working?
A lot of good things are already

coming out of Sun’s getting rid of its “inte-
grated mentality.” Our operating units

are steadily becoming more independent
of each other.

   
   
   
    

  
  
  
 
  
  

What kinds of options?
Options that give us the freedom to
direct our own future as much as possible.
For example, what directions these
businesses go in, what funds go into them,
and who shares in their ownership.
And how slowly or how rapidly we move
the asset values that have been in the
business, either into the regeneration of
the present businesses, or in new directions.

How do you view Sun?
As an operating company
or as a holding company?
It’s neither. Our relationship to
each of our operating companies is this
— we're directly concerned with shaping
the enterprise, charting its future course,
and directing the utilization of the cash
flow it generates.
Beyond that, it is the job of each
unit to develop its own independent
tactics and outperform its competitors.

  
   

          
 
   
 

Book value per share”
(fully diluted)
Earnings per share"
(fully diluted}

 
    

Cash dividends
per common share”
“adjusted for scock dividends

 
       
   
   
 

 

   
 
  

The above chart points up the progress the

 
   
   
   
 

company has made in the decade since the S
and Sunray DX merger. All'dollar figures are Where does
annual dollars per share of common stock. Becton, Dickinson fit in?
; Sun doesn’t own Becton, Dickinson, |
There's been an unlocking of the nor do we direct its operations. With our

 
 

talents and abilities of individual managers
— and an enlarging of the capacities o
the operating units themselves.

$293 million purchase of 34% of Becton,
Dickinson shares, we have taken a strong
equity position which creates several

 
     

future options that will be open to Sun.

Does putting $293 million
into Becton, Dickinson mean
you’ve given up risk-taking

~ in the energy business?

Definitely not. We have the resources
to do both. Energy, and particularly
petroleum, is far and away the biggest
part of our business.

Sun’s capital outlays for 1978,
including intangible development costs,
are projected to exceed a billion dollars.
From $750 to $800 million of this will
be spent in energy-related areas.

For example, Sun obtained a very
favorable position in the Atlantic offshore
area — Baltimore Canyon — in the 1976
lease sale. The outlay was $54 million,
and relative to our market capitalization,
this gives Sun a significant exposure in
the Baltimore Canyon area.

SUN'S POSITION
IN THE
BALTIMORE CANYON

INTEREST ls aw
Exploration drilling commenced in April
of chis year in the Baltimore Canyon area of the
U.S. Atlantic Coast. With the expenditure of

$54 million, Sun has gained positions
in nine high-potentiai tracts here.

What about
the Gulf of Mexico?

We have invested more than
one-quarter of a billion dollars in Gulf
of Mexico tracts since 1969, and that
investment is now beginning to pay off.

Sun will gain additional gas
production from seven platforms coming
onstream this year. Four will be operated
by Sun Gas Company. With another
six platforms expected to come onstream
in 1979 and 1980, our new offshore
natural gas production should approximate
140 million cubic feet per day.

That's just about 12% of our current
production, and it will sustain Sun's gas
supply by offsetting declines in mature
reservoirs.

 

 

PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE

980261786