Once people had to put
their fiveson the line
to support
black education.
Today wejust need
your signature.

    

Thousands of Americans black and
white, braved public opinion, physical
violence and the law, to help blacks re-
ceive an education.

Thanks to a continuing tradition of
support for black education, the United
Negro College Fund has, since 1944,
helped black students fulfill their dreams
and their right to an education.

Thousands have changed the courses
of their lives by becoming scientists,
engineers and teachers, perhaps chang-
ing the course of your life as well.

Fortunately, supporting black educa-
tion won't cost your life or liberty any-
more. Today, it just costs money. Please
continuea great American tradition.

Giveto
TheUnited Negro
Amindisa ssonzeee AR
terrible thing to waste, «me setceedturce

20B

PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE

 

 

el

need proximity to a definable complex of
vacation attractions, like golf/tennis/
swimming, or fishing/seashore/sun. If
you can’t carry a second home without
rental income, evaluate prospective
properties in light of the question, “who
rents and why?” The longer the rental
season, the better.

s RENOVATION. It’s hard for an investor to
get his money out of a rundown country
house that he plans to fix, because of the
high price of renovation. Anyone who
hasn’t done a home-improvement job
recently. should get an estimate before
going ahead. What you figure at $10,000
may actually come to $25,000.

a ZONING. The future value of any vaca-
tion property depends on local land-use
laws. It’s risky to buy in an unzoned area,

Previews

presents....,

or where weak zoning allows high rises
to mix with single-family homes.

a RESALES. Broker Price likes to remind
city slickers that there’s such a thing as a
country slicker, too. If the grass isn’t
greener over the septic tank, maybe the
septic system isn’t working. The elder-
berry bush said to be your boundary
marker may be 50 yards into your neigh-
bor’s land. “People who come up here
don’t know anything,” Price complains.
“They spend $100,000 on a house with-
out putting up $300 for a survey, or
talking to people, or even finding out
whether the access road is plowed in
winter, and then they write a magazine
article on ‘How I Got Stuck Buying
Country Property’.”

= INCOME TAXES. The Tax Reform Act of
1976 changed the rules on vacation-
home deductions. The house is now a tax
shelter only if personal use amounts to 10
per cent or less of the number of days it’s
rented, or no more than two weeks. Un-

der those circumstances, all the costs of
running the property as a business—
including depreciation insurance, main-
tenance, utilities and real-estate com-
missions, as well as taxes, interest and
casualty losses—can be deducted from
income. Typically, this produces a loss.
But if the property doesn’t show a profit
in two years out of five, the Internal
Revenue Service may declare it a “hob-
by” rather than a business, and certain
deductions will be denied.

If personal use is more than fourteen
days, and also more than 10 per cent of
the days the house is rented, business
expenses are deductible only to the
amount of gross rentals. You have to do
some allocating here, for expenses like
taxes and interest payments that are

    

Middle-income properties crash, but
the ‘class’ market booms. Is it a buy?

both “business” and “personal’’—ask an
accountant about it. But the upshot is
that you break even: there’s no reporta-
ble income from rents and no business
deduction to tax-shelter regular income.

Personal use, incidentally, doesn’t
mean only the time you and your family
occupy the house. It also includes free
use by friends and relatives, or by anv-
one charged less than a fair rent.

“If you can’t beat the hobby loss rule.”
says Terry R. Nygaard, of the Minneapo-
lis office of the accounting firm Haskins
& Sells, “your tax position may actually
be better if you step up your use of the
house to more than 10 per cent.” That
happens for reasons only an accountant
could love, or calculate.

If you sell the house at a profit, the
capital gain is taxable in the current year.
And you can’t avoid the tax by rolling
your investment in another vacation
house: deferral of capital gains applies
only to principal homes,

aA,

Newsweek, May 15, 1978

980261782