Sted AIDTS

fr ae

 
 
  

hort of a worldwide re-
cession, it would have
been hard to imagine a
more compelling moment for
chiefs of state to ponder eco-
nomics. In Tokyo, the dollar had
sunk by almost 25 per cent in ten
months and was once again under
blistering attack. In Geneva, nego-
tiations to liberalize the rules governing
world trade seemed hopelessly bogged
down. In Bremen, West Germany, mem-
bers of the Common Market reached a
tentative agreement on a new linking of their
currencies to protect themselves against the
kind of buffeting the dollar is suffering. And in
the U.S., the latest forecast from the Carter
White House confirmed the obvious: the na-
tion’s expansion was slowing—and the inflation
rate was accelerating. Whatever happens at the
seven-nation summit conference due to begin
this weekend in Bonn, Jimmy Carter and his
colleagues won’trun out of problems to discuss.
It could be, of course, that the conferees will
do little more than posture and pose; for one
thing, they plainly want to avoid hard commit-
ments that might backfire later. At the last sum-
mit in London fourteen months ago, Japan and
West Germany promised to meet specific 1977
growth targets to help the world economy, and
both fell embarrassingly short. Another portent
is that the American side seems to be approach-
ing the event with determinedly lowered expec-
tations. “‘Phis is not another Yalta or Bretton
Woods,” insists a top U.S. official. “This is
simply an opportunity for the heads of state to
talk over issues that concern all of them.”
Perhaps most important, many of the heads of
state are in political difficulties and may be
willing to trade away precise agreements for a

 
 

    
   
   
   
   
    
     
     
    
    
    
   
    
   
  

 
    
      
     

Perils of
Summitry

Sas

gu’

Drawing by Cathy Hull

package of loose sonorities that
generate reassuring headlines
at home. “The message,” says a
senior economics aide to West
German Chancellor Helmut
Schmidt, “is that if everyone plays
ball, there will be enough goodies for
allto take home atthe end of the day.”
Ifthere are goodies to be had, Carter
figures to pick up fewer than most. The
Europeans, particularly Schmidt,* have
been urging Washington for months to do
more to restrain inflation and oil imports—
perhaps the key factors in America’s giant
trade deficit and the dollar’s decline. And last
week, Kiichi Miyazawa, chief of Japan’s Eco-
nomic Planning Agency, made a point of stat-
ing his “disappointment” in U.S. economic
leadership, especially in energy policy.
The Europeans apparently intend to take
over as leaders themselves. They are expect-
ed to push their plan for greater monetary
stability within the Common Market and press
the U.S. even harder on inflation and oil im-
ports. Beyond that, however, national interests
diverge rapidly, with alignments shifting on the
various issues up for discussion. The major
items on the agenda: economic growth and
inflation, world trade, monetary stability, ener-
gy policy and aid to less developed countries.

ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFLATION

The U.S. wants to put last year’s locomotive
theory back on track, but with someone else’s
engine in the lead. Carter and his aides will
make the case that the U.S. has done everything
itcan to nurture the global expansion—and that

 

*The other summit leaders: President Valéry Giscard D'Estaing of
France and Prime Ministers James Callaghan of Britain, Takeo Fukuda
of Japan, Pierre Elliott Trudeau of Canada and Giulio Andreotti of Italy.

   
 
   
    
     
   
   
     
   
   
     
    

Approaching the is-
sues at the summit
(from left): Trudeau,
Carter, Schmidt, Cal-
laghan, Giscard, Fu-
kuda and Andreotti

72 o Newsweek, July 17, 1978

 

SS

PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE 980261790