TUE WAASIUOMGION IAGIE

 

 

The Administration’s
First Days of Summer

Some things are certain and
unchanging. The hounds, given an
adequate opportunity, will catch the foxes
every time. Black, although beautiful,
becomes invisible in the political off-year.

_And in a federal budget squeeze, butter is
no match for guns—the artillery always
prevails.

There are even more overwhelming
certainties. Foremost: When the big
powers decide what is important and
worth a fight, little people—especially
minority little people—had better stand
clear.

There are some chronic and familiar
losers: the foxes, the investors in butter—
people who can’t quite get out of the way
fast enough. But for the classic
underdogs, the blacks and the poor of the
nation, this summer has been grimmer
than most.

We got a signal as to the kind of
summer that was approaching when the
Supreme Court decided that states need
not allow federal Medicaid money to pay
for a woman’s abortions. And then, when
Jimmy Carter—who tells us he grew up
within sight of black poverty in south
Georgia—concurred with the Court, we
smelled trouble afoot. Life is unfair, the
President told us.

“If there is anything blacks know and
don’t have to be told,” quipped the
National Urban Legue’s Vernon Jordan,
“it’s that life is unfair.”

Was Carter speaking to Bruce
Lewellyn, the owner of Fedco Foods in
New York who lost heavily when the
City’s lights went out and his black-
controlled. and -operated stores were
looted and blighted? Was he speaking to
Edward Arden, the ex-con who couldn’t
get a job until he was hired by a black
merchant in Bushwick, only to find no job
when the lights came on in Brooklyn?

When Senator Lawton Chiles, the
conscientious Florida Democrat, got
properly indignant over reports that
whites were illegally using blacks as
“fronts” to obtain 8(a) “set-aside”
contracts, he decided to straighten things
out. It was time to stand aside.

Cheats wefe unmasked and in order to

By Ernest Holsendolph, Bob Maynard

and Grayson Mitchell

halt their skullduggery, the Smail
Business Administration (SBA)
suspended the 8(a) program. No more
sheltered contracts. Millions of potential
dollars for minority development were
embargoed—just at the time when the
economy was ripe to lift black enterprises
out of their doldrums. The blacks had
been hammered along with the white
parasites.-Life was unfair.

While Senator Chiles was most
concerned about what appears to bea
widespread pattern of fraudulent business
schemes in the 8(a) program, he was also
critical of SBA’s Policies which resulted

PLETE

It appears that if Bakke prevails in the

- Supreme Court this fall, a kind of domino

effect may tumble down plans made to
bring neglected victims of discrimination,
including women, into mainsteam
opportunities. Among the casualties could
well be some of the economic programs
designed as compensatory help for black
entrepreneurs.

Representative Louis Stokes of Ohio—
and he was not alone—saw cause for
alarm in the developments that included
growing attacks on equal opportunity
programs in Congress, setbacks for

desegregation o on the Hill and i in n the

ons , plat Se
Closed Eyes on Capitol Hill

 

 

in only 90 minority firms “graduating”
from the sheltered program into regular
competitve bidding. But the moratorium
halted graduations altogether.

More pervasive than the 8{a) action
alone was an accumulation of
Washington developments this year that
cast a pall over veteran lobbyists for black
causes. Affirmative action policies in
general came under attack in the
Congress as repeated efforts were made
to limit programs of the Departments of
Labor, and Health, Education and
Welfare that were drawn up to compel
local authorities to spend federal money
equitably among citizens.

Hovering over the affirmative action
debate is a lawsuit, the case of University
of California vs. Allan Bakke, where a
white student alleged that he was a victim
of discrimination because qualified black
medical school applicants gained

admission ahead of him despite his better

record, The University of California had
a policy of setting aside a number of seats
for minorities.

courts, and such evidence of insensitivity
as the 8(a) decision and the President’s
attitude toward abortion aid.

“This drumbeat of attacks on civil
rights,” said Democrat Stokes, “indicates
a political climate unhealthy for the
country and for the preservation of civil
rights gains made to date. Most troubling
is the manner in which members of the
House of Representatives vote against
code words without contemplation of the
implications. . . .”

Congressman Parren Mitchell (D-
Md.), the leading force in Congress for
aid to minority businesses, pleaded with
the members for deeper thought about
the implications of their actions and
managed to enlist President Carter in an
effort to shore up national commitment to
affirmative action programs which would
protect and enhance minority gains.

The President appealed to Americans’
sense of “fairness” to enlist support for
affirmative action. The wheel, it
appeared, had come full circle. But
mostly it was a time to wait and see. |

 

SS

BLACK ENTERPRISE / SEPTEMBER 1977

PRODUCED FROM B&W WEB SITE

15

 

980261777