PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y 10017

10: Distribution . DATE January 15, 1986
FROM: Marketing Services hgh EY

& “3 dats. yo U
susECT: CONCORD'S PROMOTIONAL TECHNIQUE .

In order to create trade and consumer excitement about the
introduction of Concord, PM USA came up with two interesting promotions:

For Trade:

To introduce customers to this new product, key accounts were
given portable stereo cassettes which contained a tape featuring the
Concord message. (The stereo cassette was theirs to keep.) The
volume on the cassette was pre-set at the highest level possible.
Introductory music was the first sound you heard, followed by the
text. The text began by informing the listener that the announcer
knew what the listener had just done -- he adjusted the sound to the
tone that was comfortable for his easy listening. The announcer then
informed the listener that he could also adjust his tar level from
5 mg. to 15 mg. per cigarette, depending on his mood. The announcer
invited the listener to try a free sample of the Concord cigarettes
which were enclosed with the cassette recorder and tape. A copy of
the Concord Regular and Concord Menthol texts are attached for your
review.

For Consumers:

Besides the usual, free samples, two-~for-one deals (lighter free)
and carton give-aways (Concord Solar Calculators), Concord offered a
sweepstakes whereby consumers automatically entered into the drawing
when they redeemed their coupons. Top prize consisted of a Ford
Mustang, a Hawaiian Cruise or $15,000 cash. Coupons were inserted
in magazines, newspapers and supplements. When a consumer rubbed off
the top right portion of the game card insert, he was entitled to a
free pack or carton of Concord. When he redeemed the game card for his
prize, he wrote his name and address on the bottom of the card, as well
as marked off the prize he wished to be eligible to win. The coupon
was then automatically entered into the "Suit Your Taste" Sweepstakes.
(Copies of the coupon and free samples are attached for your information.

Should you be interested in a dial-a-tar introduction, you may like
to adapt the above ideas.

eet

Patricia Sabatino,

Attachments

eh62201 052