PRELIMINARY APPLICATION
CHARACTERIZATION AND ROLE OF ECTO-ADP-RIBOSYLTRANSFERASE IN
LYMPHOCYTE.ACTIVATION -

1, Background and Significance.

T lymphocytes play a vital role in the defense against viral and bacterial
invaders as well as malignant cells that arise from host tissues. The biochemical
mechanisms they use to interact with their immediate environment enable them to
respond to a variety of different extracellular stimuli to mount an effective immune
response. For example, this can take the form of localizing to a specific area of
inflammation via binding of cell adhesion molecules expressed on the T cells and
infected or inflamed tissues. Recognition of specific antigen by the T cell receptor as
well as ligand binding to other so-called “accessory” receptors can also stimulate
lymphocyte activation leading to cell proliferation, lymphokine secretion and
amplification of the immune response. Thus, a more thorough understanding of the
ways in which lymphocytes communicate with their extracellular milieu is of
profound importance to our knowledge of the workings of the cellular immune
system. Moreover, such knowledge can potentially lead to the rational design of
therapeutic interventions which could either amplify or dampen this response.

Over the past several years, my laboratory has focused on studying a T cell
plasma membrane receptor which we discovered as a binding protein for pertussis
toxin (PT). The exotoxin of Bordetella pertussis is a member of a group of bacterial
toxins that are structurally composed of two functional subunits. The “A” subunit
has enzymatic activity as a mono-ADP-ribosyltransferase which catalyzes the
covalent modification of substrate proteins by the addition of an ADP-ribosyl moiety
utilizing nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) as the donor. The substrates for
this reaction are GTP-binding “G" proteins which couple intracellular second
messenger generating systems to membrane receptor signalling. PT is known to
ADP-ribosylate the alpha subunits of a number of G proteins belonging to the Gi

class, including Gj and Gpa, as well as transducin in vertebrate photoreceptors.
The “B” subunit of these toxins is thought to facilitate binding to the plasma
membrane via specific receptor sites and to allow entry of the toxin into the
intracellular compartment. In most cells, the effects of PT require a prolonged pre-
incubation period with high doses of the toxin, suggesting that either entry of the
toxin into the cell is slow and may be rate-limiting for the observed biological effects,
or that higher intracellular concentrations of the toxin are required. In cell-free
systems, treatment of the toxin with reducing agents is necessary to produce its
enzymatic activity, presumably by reducing intrachain disulfide bonds.

In T lymphocytes PT stimulates cell activation, including the generation of
second messengers such as diacylglycerol, increases in intracellular Ca2+, and
tyrosine protein phosphorylation, resulting in cell proliferation. These effects of the
toxin require only the B subunit, or "PTg" (1). The toxin receptor requires the co-
expression of the CD3-T cell antigen receptor complex, suggesting that, like other so-
called "accessory" mitogenic signalling receptors on T cells, the PTR stimulates cells
by activating the T cell receptor (1). We have shown that the B subunit binds to a 43
kDa T cell plasma membrane protein, suggesting that this is the receptor that
mediates the mitogenic effects of the toxin (2). It has been unclear whether the toxin
receptor(s) is a novel protein or has been previously identified as something else. One
possible, although unlikely, candidate that we considered was the CD38 antigen, a

 

40042818