43-46 kDa plasma membrane glycoprotein expressed on a number of lymphoid cells.
This protein has recently been shown to have a high degree of homology to an ADP-
ribosyl cyclase from Aplysia; CD38 also has ecto-NAD glycohydrolase and cyclic ADP- .
ribose synthase activity (3.4). While certain monoclonal anti-CD38 antibodies can
participate in activating CD38(4) cells, it is unclear what the exact function of this
protein is. Furthermore, it has not yet been shown that mitogenic anti-CD38
antibodies stimulate the enzymatic activity of this protein. We were unable to
demonstrate that PTg binds to CD38. However, in the course of these
experiments we discovered that the B subunit of the toxin (PTp) activated a
novel ADP-ribosyltransferase activity in T lymphocytes, leading to the ADP-
ribosylation of a 58 kDa membrane protein, apparently on a extracellular site.
This occurred only in cells that could be stimulated by PTp, suggesting that the toxin
was required to bind to its receptor to activate this ecto-enzymatic activity. This did
not occur after stimulation with other T cell mitogens, such as antibodies to the T cell
receptor. Furthermore, this activity was independent of the expression of CD38,
suggesting that PIg was stimulating a novel ecto-enzyme. Interestingly, an ADP-
ribosylated membrane protein of similar molecular weight has been described in
hepatocytes (5-7); it is unknown whether these two proteins are identical. The goals
of this research project are to characterize the ecto-ADP-ribosyltransferase and its 58
kDa substrate and to determine their role in T lymphocyte function.

2. Specific Aims.

(a) Characterization and purification of the ADP-ribosylated 58 kDa plasma
membrane substrate in human T cells.

(b) Characterization and purification of the PTp-stimulated ecto-ADP-
ribosyltransferase from human T lymphocytes.

3. Experimental Design.
(a) Characterization and purification of the ADP-ribosylated 58 kDa plasma
membrane substrate in human T ceils.

We are currently making rabbit antibodies against ADP-ribose coupled to
keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) as described (8,9). The antisera will be affinity
purified over ADP-ribose-BSA-Sepharose and NAD-agarose columns. The antibodies
will be used first in immunodetection and immunolocalization experiments with
intact cells as well as immunoprecipitation studies in lymphocytes and rat
hepatocytes after treatment with NAD and PTp. If the liver and lymphocyte proteins
appear to be closely related (or identical) by tryptic peptide mapping, 2-D gels, etc.,
we will initially use rat hepatocytes as the source of material to purify the protein. If
this does not work, or if the proteins are quite different, we will use a human
lymphocyte cell line as the source. The initial goal for purification will be to get
enough material to make monoclonal antibodies against p58. We will then be able to
use these reagents to probe expression libraries or clone the cDNA in a COS cell
expression library system. The ultimate goal of these experiments will be to clone
this protein.

{b) Characterization and purification of the PTg-stimulated ecto-ADP-
ribosyltransferase from human T lymphocytes.

Our goal in studying this protein is two-fold: to purify it and clone its cDNA and
to investigate what role it may play in the functioning of lymphocytes in both normal

40042819