wg 633029

A.M. A. ARCHIVES OF INDUSTRIAL HEALTH

nificant ill health nor were any characteris-
tic adverse effects detected by periodic
medical examinations.” On the other harid,
Vigdortschik and associates ®° reported
symptoms of chronic poisoning in men ex-
posed for three to five years to a concenttra-
tion of nitrogen dioxide of about 2.5 ppm
(5 mg/m’). Newman*’ reported head-
aches from workers exposed to 7.5 to
38 ppm of “nitrogen peroxide” near deep
therapy x-ray. There is also a report of a
faciory having been abandoned because the
NO; content reached § to 14 ppm (14 to
25 mg/m§).*» To summarize, the animals
exposed to proved concentrations of NOs
demonstrated that lethal nature of concen-
trations of 88 ppm inhaled for four hovrs.
The reports of the effects of “nitrous
fumes” are difficult to interpret because
the nature of the mixture (NO to NO:
content) has not been positively and quari-
titatively fixed. The lethal concentration
oi NOs for human exposures is not known.

N10, —The information avaitable on the
toxicity of N2Os is conflicting. In_ this
present state no conclusions are possible.
About all that can be done is to direct the
attention of the reader to work being done
in this field. The problem of N2Os is in:
timately connected with the toxicity of
ozone, the former being present when the
latter is prepared froni air, When ozone
ts prepared from nitrogen-free sources the
problein becomes one of ozone toxicity
alone.

N,Q; is the anhydride of nitric acid.
Apparently it is stable only in the presence
of ozone. It is hygroscopic and in moist air
goes rapidly to HNO3. NOs is converted
to N20, rather readily. This reaction
NO>NOr2N203 occurs in the presence
of ozone and as a consequence only small
amounts of NQ2 are present as shown by
Diggic and Gage.*® Gorodetskii 4? in 1936
also concluded that N20, was the principal
oxide found in the presence of ozone. For
further details the reader is referred to
Johnson ‘3 and to Saltzman, Byers, and
Hyslop.

1R 482

Diggle and Gage '® became interested in
N2Os because of the contamination of dzone:
with nitrogen oxides and their possible effect
on ozone toxicity. From the work of
Gorodetskii,#? Johnson,** and others, they
concluded that N2Os was the principal
contaminating oxide, Testing with ths com-
pound, they produced pulmonary edenia in
rats with a four-hour exposure to 9.7 mg/m?
{about 2 ppm) and with 12 daily four-hour
exposures at a level of 4.25 mg/m? (1 ppm),
while with NOs, using the same species for
the same length of exposure, at 80 mg/m
(42.5 ppm) they produced pulmonary
hemorrhage but no edema. These authors *
found NsOs to be about three times as
toxic as Os: when the two gases were
mixed, their toxicities were additive.

Thorp *® quoted Frederick as postulating
the existence of a new compound, irritating
and tonic, formed by the action of ozone
on NOs, which he called “nitrogen oxide.”
This postulate was made to account for the
disappearance of NCQ» in the presence of
ozone. The formation of N2O3 would ac-
count for the disappearance of NO; equally
well.

Stokinger's group *? has been unable to
confirm the results of Diggle and Gage.
They find N2O, relatively innocuous and
attribute the tonic effects to the O, present.
The final answer to the toxicity of NaOs
will have to await further work to resolve
the conflicting results of these two groups.

Pathology

The pathology produced by oxides of
nitrogen has been reviewed by Hamilton) *
and particularly by Von Oettingen. The
latter, quoting Flury,4® distinguishes four
types. Type 1 is the irritant type which
terminates in pulmonary edema. Type 2.
the reversible type, is characterized by
dyspnea, cyanosis, vomiting. vertiga, sem.
nolence, intoxication, and finally loss of
consciousness. There is methemoglobin
formation but no pulmonary edema. Re-
covery follow, prompt removal from ex-
posure. but if sufficient time ely ses before

Fob 10, Way pete