A.M A. ARCHIVES OF INDUSTRIAL HLALTH

fumes” whose toxicity it is necessary to
determine and what is the contribution of
each to this toxicity,

The oxides of nitrogen include N-0O,
NO, N2O3, HNOo, NOz, N2O, HNO3,

d N20. The following may be excluded
from consideration as potential hazards:
NO, which has to be in concentrations
approaching 90% to be dangerous and then
principally from anoxia; N2O3 which im-
mediately decomposes to NO and NOz:;
HNOs, where NO and NOs would be
toxic by-products; HNOs, whose fumes
are’ not Iethal in bearable quantities #4;
NOsg and NOQ,, which, while they do exist
in the gaseous phase, are for practical
Purposes curiosities.15

X205, which decomposes to NO, NOs.
and water’? but is stable in the presence of
Os and in this connection may be an in-
dustrial hazard, represents a special case
which will be considered separately.

This leaves for consideration NO, "NO:.
and N20, NsO, is in equilibrium with
NOz, the percentage of each being fixed
by the ambient temperature, Theretorc, for
convenience, the equilibrium mixwre will
be referred to as NOz The long list of
oxides thus is condensed to two cases:
(a) NO and (6) NOs=2N.0,; these will
be discussed in some detai!.

A few useful methods for the determina:
tion of the oxides in a given mixture are
listed. First are those for determining
total oxides. A usual procedure is to oxi-
dize all the oxides to nitrate and “ien to
determine the nitrate by its reaction with
Phenols such as phenoldisulphonic acid,
with the formation of color? Nitrate may
also be determmed by using 2.4-xyleno! as
the phenolic constituent.® NO may be de-
tennined by difference, a procedure which
can be unsatisfactory, Silverman  deter-
mined NO by emploving liquid nitrogen.
This freezes out ali of the oxides except
NO, which can then be measured by
standard methods, Wade and Fikins 2 de-
tennined NO by passing the mixture over
sihea gel, which absarbs the NO. It can

16 ‘480

also be determined by infrared absorp-
tion! NO2 is usually measured by diazo-
tization of an aromatic amine by the
mtrite formed from the NO: and then
coupling with an aromatic compound,
usually an amine, to fonn a color. Satisfic-
tory meihods are those of Patty and Petty,
whose method is based on the well-known
Griess-Hosvay reaction,®?- of Sahzman,23
and of Shinn.2? NO; has been determined
as a total nitrate.

A brief résumé of the toxicity of the
oxides to be discussed follows. A pivint
which needs repeated emphasis is that NO
and NOs are so interrelated that ufter: a
discussion of one of necessity blends with
the other. The interrelationship is the crux
of the toxicity problem for nitrous fume.

NO—Von Oettingen® has pointed out
that no cases of nitrogen oxide (nitric
oxide) poisoning in humans are reported in
the Iterature.  Pflesser 3°" stated that
0031 vol. f (310 ppm) was nonfatal to
animals after cight hours of continual ex+
posure. This is about four times the L-Ceo
value of NO: for rats after four hours’
exposure found in our laboratory *. this
value was 88 pp with 19/20 with cohf-
dence Imits of 79-99 ppm. It is evident
that these wo oxides have toxicities that
are of different orders of magnitude. The
best evidence appears to be that NO. is
about four to five times as toxic as NO.
This is a point to keep in mind.

NO, —-Results with various species of
animals are confusing — LaTowsky. Mac:
Quiddy, and Tollman2™ using five sprcies
of animals—cats, guinea pugs, mice, rab-
bits, and rats--found that at 33 ppm of
NO, death might oceur after two to three
hours’ exposure We found that in a font
hour exposure period with dogs, death
occurred at 65 to 73 ppm, and with nits
deaths were observed at levele as low ae

53 ppm?* Table 1 gives a summary of the
1.Cp's for rats expnsed ta NO, Diggle
and Gage? found pulmonary hemorrhage
bot no edema in’ rats after exposure an
43 poof NO, ter four hours

Pal 20 ttn prs