OXIDES OF NITROGEN

removal death may occur, Type 3, called
the shock type, consists of asphyxiation,
convulsion, and respiratory arrest, death
apparently being due to interference with
pulmonary circulation. Type 4 is a mixture
of types 1 and 2. Types 2 and 3 have the
central nervous and gastrointestinal symp-
toms and blood changes, including methe-
moglobin formation, attributable to nitrite
poisoning, and presumably follow the in-
halation of NO. Type 1 develops after
NO, inhalation. This statement is made
categorically; in working with red fum-
ing nitric acid and NO, we found no
evidence of pathologial change in any
organ save the lung? and no methemo-
globin, although this pigment was present
after exposure to NO” Evidence of irri-
tation leading to pneumonitis, emphysema,
and pulmonary edema was present. When
death occurred the cause was pulmonary
edema Pathologically the action of N2O;
appears to be similar to that of NOz.

Schultz-Braun in an extended investiga-
tion concerning death from nitrogen
oxides®® has pointed out the similarity of
poisoning by those oxides to that of phos-
gene both as to time of appearance of
symptoms and as to the symptoms them:
selves. This similarity he makes plain by
comparative figures drawn from the litera:
ture, shown in Table 3. The parallelism
of the times of death is striking.

Potts, Simon, and Gerard *®? have sug-
gested a mechanism for the toxic action of
phosgene, diphosgene, and ketene. These
authors feel that since the concentration of
acid formed by these compounds is innoc-

Tavis 3—Compurison of Torteity of Phosgene
ond Nitrogen Oxtdes

 

Nitrogen
Pootgere Onxlde
Ferlod in Which OS Cone. (83 Cases’,

Death Occur Hr e o%
ore 88 x

HS rh) a

4032 Ww ie
Overt 6 ?

ra aap e
ook

wT pe

uous, their toxicity is due to their ability
to acetylate essential lung constituents, A
comparable reaction of NOz might account
for this similarity of action between it and
phosgene. However, oxidative changes at
the cell. membrane might also accoun’. for
the increased cell permeability.

NO., the Health Hazard

This bricf résumé should act as a back-
ground to the principal problem, which is
the hazard involved from oxides of nitro-
gen and successful assessment of any given
set of conditions for health hazards. An
explanation is needed of discrepancics ob-
served. The controversial status of N20;
necd not concern us at this point, as it 1s
usually not present in the mixture com
monly referred to as oxides of nitrogen.
For practical purposes this Ieaves NO and
NO;, one of which, NO, ts adinittedly
much less toxic than thy other.7¢

Wide variations in resulis have been
pointed out. How can such results as (a)
exposure of men to an average of 10-20
ppm for 18 month. with no ill effects™
and (6) exposure to 4 ppm for three to
five years, producing definite syinptoms of
distress.2® be ratiowlized? Contrast a
figure for the MLD in animals of 332 ppm
for one-half hour exposure #4 with an LCy
of 175 ppm for the same length of ex:
posure, using the same species.¥ The most
likely answer seems to he in the facts that
the toxicity of the gaseous mixture is
roughly proportional to the amount of NO;
present and that sources of gas whicn pro
duce mostly NOz show greater toxicity than
scurces fron: operations which produce
large quantities of NO in the oxide nvxtur:
Elkins? has pointed out that “the frequent
association of nitrogen dioxide and nine
oxide, and the failure to distinguish be
tween them, makes for difficulty in the m
terpretation of seme data on beth animal
and field studies.” He gives: the following
figures to shaw the distribution betwoeri the

oxides Jn varinus situations °°

19 483

Aah