Doe HRSGT RRO

HMA Ach. Wace % LNG Y G9

+

Oxides of Nitrogen: Their Occurrence, Toxicity,

Hazard
A Brief Review

EDWARD LeB. GRAY, Ph.D., Rothester, N.Y:

The necd for a discussion of the toxicity
of the various oxides of nitrogen arises
from the conflicting nature of the existing
data and, as a result, confusion as to what
might be considered dangerous contamins-
tion by these compounds. A vast literature
has grown up in this field. There wili be
no attempt to deal with this exhaustively,
An adequate background to the problem can
be obtained from Von Oettingen’s? excel:
lent review. This article will concern itself
with an attempt to point out the wide dif-
ferences in toxicity obtained in’ various
laboratories and if passibk, try to reconcile
these differences, It will also try to point
the way to further areas of research which
may clarify the picture,

Toxicity of Various Oxides of Nitrogen

The hazard from “nitrous fumes” is
nearly ubiquitous indystrywise, It may be
present in are welding, acid dipping of
brass or copper, cleaning of aluminum or
copper vat> with nitric acid. nitration of
organic compounds, and in mining and
blasting, explosives being largely nitrated
compounds. Since nitric acid vx frequently
used as a jet fucl, the oxides can be 2 very
rea) hazard around airports where planes
using this fuel are being flown, City smug

Received for pubbeation May 26. 1958

Division of Pharmacoteg and Toxivelom
School of Medicme and Dentistry, University of
Rochesier

This paper is besed on work performed in part
at the Army Chemical Center and im part under
contract with the US) Atom Frergy Commis
sion at the Unversity of Robester Atenne
Faery, Project

is also suspect. When Sim base was made
of cellulose nitrate, many projection booth
fires resulted in toxic concentrations of
these oxides, and included is one notable
disaster, that at Cleveland Clinie.2> Since
then this risk has been largely eliminated.
Toxic levels may be encountered from
spillage of nitric acid or from broken car-
boys of the same acid. This latter occurs
frequently and is extremely dangerous if
the spilled acid comes in contact with or-
ganic material such as wood flooring, paper,
sawdust, as the action of nitric acid on
these materials is an autocatalytic oxidation
with the production of NOs fumes, often
in lethal concentrations. Fie» the fanner
is not always iminune, as is evidenced Ly
nitrogen dioxide pneumonia—"silo filler’s
disease” —oceurring in farmers who fill
silos*® The NO» comes from inorganic
nitrate in the plant and may range from
200-4090 ppm during the first week after
filing *

The oxides of nitrogeti have been given
an MAC* (maximum acceptable roncen-
tration) of as high as 40 ppm? bur the
generally accepted figure has been
23 ppm *!° or in some cases 100 ppm?
Recently the American Standards Assccia-
tion has adopted a figure of & ppm for
NOs and 10 ppm for HNO; ™

Two questions which present themselves
mmmediately are what) compounds are
Present in the group of oxides or “nitro

°A generally accepted definition is the average
MAMAN coNcentrahoan to which a worker can
he expred for eight hours duly for an indefmse
petend votlont ineening injun or OC cupatiean ar
disease

18 7479