AERVUA FOLCLUr IER <JD ; ' ve tet OM, fie ae tov

JUL 12 'S9 12:2) LEO BRETT P.4

_—

osvonusU/ » # 4

6

CIGARETTE AD SHOWDOWN SET

by Chinta Strausberg

Denying charges that she was forced to cancel a recent meeting she
chairs that was scheduled to hear testimony on a bill banning
outdoor cigarette ads, Ald. Sheneather Butler (27) has set a
"showdown" session where top public relations guns say they will
be waiting to proverbially ambush her resolution and send it
scurrying into the sunset.

After waiting for 90 minutes for the aldermen, several tobacco
executives and lobbyists, who had flown in from Washington, D.C.
and Springfield, left the meeting room but vowed to attend her
June 14, 10 a.m. Health Committee meeting where pro-smoking forces
will verbally sword fight over community complaints that Black
neighborhoods have allegedly been flooded with billboard ads
depicting smoking as "OK," seductive, cool, according to Butler.

Should the aldermen muster up the needed 26 City Council votes for
passage, the controversial bill would ban outdoor cigarette ad
signs and rolling papers which is often used for smoking
marijuana.

But such heavyhitters as Jack Kraft, chief financial officer of
Leo Burnett Company, Stephen R. Shinn, from Gannett Outdoor of
Chicago, and Ellen Venable, executive director of the Chicago
Advertising Club, who were poised to testify last week, told the

der they are more concerned about censorship by the
singling out of outdoor cigarette ads which is how they make their
living and that of their clients.

Promising an all-out war against this alleged censorship, Kraft
asked, “Have you ever heard of a little bit of censorship?" He
and the others feel that the First Amendment would be violated
should this bill pass.

While sensitive to the issues of youth smoking and the possible
rippling effect that sometimes leads to drug use, Kraft said the
singling out of cigarettes is "wrong" and perhaps
unconstitutional. "What do we do next target sugar for banning?"

Shinn said zeroing in on cigarette advertisement is "unwarranted"
with Venable arguing that the problem is not with billboard ads
but rather the lack of enforcement of minors being allowed to
purchase cigarettes.

Shinn said the tobacco industry spends about $600 million a year

for advertisement mostly in newspapers and magazines and only two
percent on billboards.

TYILBC 011042