JUSTIFICATION OF GC-MS FOR PROJECT 0108

Structure elucidation off GC peaks too small to be
trapped and submitted to the Analytical Section.
Often mass spec requires nearly a milligram of
sample in order to obtain an identification. Many
of the gas phase components of interest are much too
small.

Glass capillary columns have proven to be useful

in separations involving reactive compounds because
of the inertness of glass. Some work has already
been done in this field on tobacco: smoke components.

 

Bartle, K. D., et. al., J. Chromatog., 45, 256 (1969).

Carugno, N. and Rossi, S., Beitrage zur Tabakforschung.
Band 3, Heft 9, 555, Dec., L966.

 

The only practical method for identification of peak compo-—

ments on glass capillary columns is by GC-MS.

In our studies using N-15 and 0-18. a GC-MS would nrove
valuable in isotope ratio work. The Bendix TOF-2001
mass spectrometer has a reported isotope ratio stability

-of + 0.1%. In our proposed 0+18 study, there are definite

advantages to using an in-lab GC-MS. An "insufficient
sample'' report on traps taken from our GC and submitted
to mass spec would surely ruin this experiment. The
Finnegan mass spectrometer is not suitable for isotope
ratio work.

In the past, we spent a considerable effort in determining

“ toluene/benzene ratios in smoke in order to find a cor-

relation with biological data. After several months'
effort in this direction, we discovered that the benzene
peak we had been measuring contained about a 20% impurity
which had not been reportedi by mass. spec. Our effort was
set back many months by this. If we were running our own
Spectra we probably would have been cognizant of this
impurity. Extensive effort was. required to find a column
to resolve these components. Deconvolution techniques
using a GC-MS could have been used to: determine directly
what percentage of this peak was actually benzene. It
might be noted that this impurity has not been suitably

CVEDZSOOOT

identified. We are not sure whether it is methyl isopropenyl

ketone or isoprene monoxide.