PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. rc INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
720 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017
TO: Field wae DATE: March 21, 1994

FROM: Barbara Reuter/Sales Programs and Information

SUBJECT: PM USA Point of Sale Material Philosophy

Maintaining the competitive advantage that has been developed over time for our brand
trademarks is critical to their future success. Creating and placing POS which enhances the
added value of our brands is also critical and must be properly managed to ensure that our
overall corporate strategies and objectives are met.

To assist the field sales force in accomplishing these goals, the following clarifies our
corporate philosophy regarding POS and outlines initiatives currently under development.

Flex Fund Price Off Promotion POS

As communicated previously on February 17, 1994 in Document 155, for the second quarter
and until further notice, all Flex Funds are to be used exclusively for running Marlboro Price
Off Promotions. Non-customized Marlboro Price Off POS will continue to be available in
support of these promotions.

Additionally, several types of custom Marlboro Price Off POS will also be available to
accounts that want to include their store name or logo.

To further support price promotion, whenever possible, a price call out space will be included
on B headers to communicate pricing.

Effective immediately the types of POS detailed above are to be used exclusively for
Marlboro Price Off Promotions.

Continuous POS for all Brands

In an effort to upgrade all continuous brand POS, senior sales management will be
requested to identify ongoing requiremenis for at least four brands, excluding Marlboro.
Select POS items will then be produced and made available to the field. Details regarding
ihese items will be communicated under separate cover.

i lagem ix
As you know, optimal placement of POS and fixturing is essential to maximize the return on
our investment. As a result, ideal store layouts which illustrate the preferred placement of PM
USA POS and fixturing will be developed for each trade class. This information should be
used as a guide to achieve the desired PM USA look in each account.

Your support of this philosophy is imperative if we are to achieve a strong presence for our
brands. Together we can ensure that our brands are advertised in a manner that is
consistent with our long-term goals.

HARD COPIES PROVIDED BY NYO TO VPRSs, TMDs, SSDs, TMPs, TMMs,
NAMs, RMIAs, HRMs, RFMs, DMs, SOMs, DAMs, SAMs, UMs, RMMs, AMMSs,

AMSSs, FVB, RMMSs, RMs, RFAs, HRGs, RRs, SDAs, SRs, RTs, AND STs.
FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY.

DOC. #249

 

oeeesre oe