Memorandum - Product Characterization Definitions and Implications

‘September 21, 1976

Page 2

+

i

Firmness: The measurement of firmness relates to how well the cigarette

rod is packed with tobacco. If there is too much tobacco, the draft
will become too high, and the problems mentioned above will obtain.
Conversely, if insufficient tobacco is in the rod then the cut filler
will fall out of the paper tube, the cigarette will collapse during
puffing, the cigarette will burn too rapidly, and ashes will tend to
fall off. Typical good firmness values for cigarettes are in the order
of 9 to ll. .

‘" Nicotine: The psychopharmacological agent in tobacco which is one of the

key factors in satisfaction is nicotine. Although the issue is not
decided, current theory advocates that a smoker will consume enough
cigarettes to reach his satisfaction level. However, should the nicotine
be too low, the smoker will become fatigued with smoking before achieving
Satiation. On the other hand, too much nicotine in the smoke will make.
the product so strong that the consumer is unable to enjoy the product.
Typical nicotine in smoke values for cigarettes range from 0.2 mg. to 1.8
mg. per cigarette.

Tar: The designation tar is a misnomer for the complicated but discrete

pH

mixture of solid and liquéd materials in smoke aerosol excluding water, which

ds omitted, and nicotine, which is reported separately, The smoke tar
contains the majority of flavorant materials responsible for the taste
of cigarette smoke. A reduction in tar leads perforce to a reduction in
taste perception. Application of more top flavor materials and selection
of stronger flavored tobaccos are typical procedures for amelioration of

the loss of taste associated with tar reduction.

The chemical measurement of the acid or basic nature of any substance is
given by a pH value. The range for pH is from 0 to 14. The range for
cigarette smoke is typically from 5.5 to 7.0. The consumer might relate pli
to things he takes by mouth by considering the tartness of apples or citrus
fruit to relate to the acid side of the scale, i.e. below 7. The basic
taste might be related to egg whites or baking soda. The preponderance of
foods are neutral to slightly acid as is cigarette smoke. An example of

an acid smoke is an. English cigarette and a basic smoke is a cigar.

The pH also relates to the immediacy of the nicotine impact. As the pi
increases, the nicotine changes its chemical form so that it is more
rapidly absorbed by the body and more quickly gives a "kick" to the smoker.
However, if the pH becomes too high the smoke cannot be inhaled as is the
case with cigar smoke. a

eSto 29 Tos