Ait

 

“pore. Gk yn Kempe

- Product Characterization Definitions, and Date: September 21, 1976

Implications .. Fh
ONG ts i fen
. Snes og teem Gamed .
my

Mr. A. P. Ritchy - From: John L. McKenzic

Definition of Terms

Draft is the resistance to the flow of air. A standard flow rate is used
to measure the resistance which is recorded in either inches or milli-
“meters (mm) of water. The higher the resistance, the higher the number
of the measurement.

Firmness is a measure of the softness of a cigarette tobacco rod. The
measurement is made by applying a standard force for a standard period
of time to the tobacco rod and measuring the depression in 0.) mm.
increments. Therefore, 0.1 mm. of depression is called 1.0 units of
firmness. The higher the firmness. number, the softer the cigarette.’

Smoke Analyses are ‘obtained by placing the cigarette’ in a special holder,
lighting the tobacco rod and pulling air (35 ml) for two seconds once
per minute. This constitutes a "puff". The cigarette is puffed as
specified above until the fire cone or burning zone reaches a line 3 mm.
from the filter tipping. ‘

“Puff Count is the average number of puffs required for all of the cigarettes
in the analytical procedure to reach the specified 3 mm. distance from
the tipping paper.

Nicotine is the pharmacologically active alkaloid ingredient in tobacco
smoke, and is collected on a special filter during the smoking procedure.
The nicotine is reported separately from other smoke components.

Tar is all the solid and liquid materials in smoke except nicotine, which is
reported separately, and water, which is subtracted, to obtain weight of
tar per cigarette.

pH is a measure of the acid to base ratio. A value below 7 is acid and a
value above 7 is basic. °

Implications of Measurements Upon Consumer Perception

Draft: Typical cigarette draft is about 2.4 to 4.5 inches. Too low a draft
would make it difficult for the smoker to pull air through the fire cone
_ and generate smoke. Too high a cigarette draft would make the smoker
have difficulty pulling the smoke through the rod, e@.g. the Strickman
_ filter.

O
o
-
+
N
°
~
ww
Gl