O5/02/04 10:53 @ 19107274902 W. KLEIN & ASSOC. «== PUBLIC RELATIONS [003,004

FACT CARD:
Good Arguments Against The Government's Proposed Smoking Ban

Our taderal government is pushing two proposals that would ban smoking almost everywhere
in

   
   

nee
“aT he first threat Is HR 3434, the sweeping new bill proposed by Congressman Hanry then
~.. Waxman, It would ban smoking in virtually all indoor public places — plus eame outdoor “
ones|

he second threat comes from OSHA = the Occupational Safety and Health Ps:2
Administration. These unglectad bureaucrats want to outlaw smoking in nearly all workplaces
nationwide.

Here are some strong arguments against these government bans. Fee! free to make these

points (in your own words) when you write to Congress.

« Secondhand smoke Isn't the Issue. Earlier this year, the Environmental Protection
Agency classified secondhand smoke as a Class A carcinogen. But this finding has drawn
criticism fromm prominent scientists. The Congressional Research Service has called the
EPA's report into question. And the report Is being challenged in court. OSHA should base
Its regulations on sound sclence — not political science.

The current system works. Across America, employers, bullding managers, and local
elected officials have designed smoking policies that work. Smoking and nonsmoking
sections are the norm in most areas. And according to polls, two-thirds of Americans
find this arrangement acceptable. So there’s no need for the federal government to
further reguiate this Issue.

The proposed regulations go tao far. In some cases, the proposed rules would
invade the privacy of the homa. if you pay aomeane to work inside your home, you
Ohi

This Is just another attempt at backdoor Prohibition. These government proposals
represent the anti-smokere’ latest campaign to erase smoking from American culture.
These politicians have a political agenda, and it has nothing to do with protecting non-
smokers from secondhand ‘smoke. But If Prohibition is what the anti-smokers want, let
them stand up in Congress and put Prohibition to a vote. They'll find that the majority
of Americans do not want a return to Prohibition!

Other Steps You Can Take To Stop Government Smoking Bans:
+ Write a letter to the editor of your local newspaper. Use the points above to argue
agalnet the proposed smoking bans. Keep your letter short (about 260 words). For the
address where you should send your letter, see your newspaper's editorial page.

« Talla friend about the proposed bans. R.J. Reynolds Is telling as many smokers as
possible about the government's proposed smoking bans. But your friends might not hear

LOST CHITS