a Slide I shows a closeup of a mouse in \ the stancion. ‘The mouse wears a
felt collar permanently around its neck. A number is engraved into the collar
for identification of the mouse. During the experiment, the collar is fixed into
“this plexiglass holder. A wire "bit'' is placed into the mouse's mouth. A narrow moe!
cotton strip is attached to the "bit. " The strip turns from a yellow to purple upon —
exposure. with saliva. wee es oe wo Es re

    
   

   

ce "Slide i ‘shows, that the described setup does permit the simultaneous study
: of large numbers of mice. It demonstrates further that application of treatments :
--ean be done in a very systematic fashion. On this picture you see the salivary “ee
- performance by various strains oft mice (on which we + will report later).

“oe “In order to standardize the method, spontaneous salivation was measured
: Sander a variety of experimental conditions over a ten-minute period. Salivation —
was found to be significantly affected, among other factors, by the number of -;
» consecutive days during which each mouse was subjected to measurement, the a
frequency of measurements during each day, and variations from one animal to .
another. tees WE ato fon Cae

“ea - “4

Sat “To further ‘Standardize the methodology, the ‘method was applied to. examine . one
C : the | presence or absence of any systematic differences among both sexes of vari- ....
= gus strains of mice. Twenty animals (half males, half females) of each of four |.
“inbred strains of mice, namely AKR/J, DBA/2J, C3HeB/FeJ and C57BL/6J from _
P the Jackson Laboratories in Bar Harbor were studied. Salivation was measured |
over | a four - cen, Periods | six times daily | at + hourly intervals. oo

  
  
   
     

The. mice, “all ten weeks ‘old, were , housed five toa cage for a period | of two 2
’ eeka prior to the actual start of the salivation experiment. During the first week,

all mice were fitted with collars and numbered. ‘The mice had no prior exposure |

‘to the salivation technique. The data were systematic ally recorded. They were

- analyzed statistically, primarily by means of the analysis of variance, using the-

aA 370 Wang computer systems SE votes :

 
 

 
      

 

a We will limit ourselves to statistically ‘significant results only, and exclude eas
: nonsignificant data or trends from further considerations. ,

Slide Iv. shows graphically the , salivating performance for the four different

‘strains of mice on four consecutive days. Significant differences among these Poly

-.: etrains were found, except between DBA/2J and the C57BL/6J. Thus, the AKR/J ok
C - ‘exhibits the lower salivation, salivary performance of the C3HeB/FeJ is inter- eo

mediate, and DBA/2J i and CSTBL/6S @ are both high salivators.