a
%

  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
  
 
 
 
  

. “Slide v shows the salivary performances of mice in each sex of each strain.
‘Statistical analysis of the data proved that male DBA/2J mice produced less saliva
~ than the females of this strain. This sex difference was reversed in the C3HeB/ ~:
FeJ, where the males produced more saliva than the females. No sex differences
were » noted in the low - “salivating AKR/J and the high- salivating C57BL/6J 1 mice.

ots Note further that salivation is S significantly lower ‘during the first day than e
- in the three following days. This holds true for each sex of each of the four —
“gtrains. The differences in salivation during the last three days are not signifi- -
.eant, except for the AKR/J females, where salivation is increased progressively
. during the four - day period of experimentation. a

We have done further statistical analysis ¢ on ‘these data.

 

fey - Slide VI provides a ‘summary of the various factors that contribute to aali-
~ vation differences in each sex ¢ and strain during this experiment. ot

   

peg o “The results “show that | in 1 nearly all cases, more than 95 per cent ‘of the |
i. ‘variability in salivation can be accounted for by controlled factors, thus leaving
‘only a 5 per cent random variability. This indicates that the experimental con- |
™ |... ditions within the inbred strains of mice are very well defined. Approximately _
a sae . ....80 per cent of the variability in salivation can be attributed to individuality among
;. the animals and to days of experimentation. The rank order of the measurement -
‘during the day, and the ‘Day X measurement" interaction, are only minor con-
.tributing factors to variability and were found to be nonsignificant. This means,
“in practice, | that the spontaneous salivation during any one day! is. rather stable, :
vhen salivation i is measured at hoary intervals. oo feet :

 

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

   
   
  
 

    

 

aoe
OF
3.
eed
In future biological assays, we will utilize ‘the contributions to variability x
: by "animals" but will eliminate the contribution to variability by "days" through

omission of first day ealivation data from mice not Previously used. cs a
arr an n exaunple in pharmacology, a . pilot study was pe rformed | examining oO
a the effect of methacholine on salivary performance of random - bred male Ha/ICR | =.
es - Millerton Swiss mice, @, noninbred strain which exhibits much more variability
a in a salivating performance than the inbred strains of mice, presented above).

‘Slide vi shows the results obtained. Note the large stimulation of saliva-
tion when the mice were injected subcutaneously with methacholine, immediately on,

o prior to the third salivation, 0 © ome

See arama panamncnmeen naneheertica tice dieteemnestatin a txtened tedithivnte te atunteatentmee eteertese tenet entities 21m eunmibenhiateatthaAthenaee eee ee etd

In summary, a new / method has been described for the measurement of

| C *  galivation in small rodents. The method employs minimally restraint, un- ve,
, anesthetized mice. The method is suitable for physiological and pharmacological |

_/. studies, and data can be obtained simply and in adequate numbers to > permit statis- me
oe tical analysis o of ‘results. SO ay So ar 2d ;

 

  

*