3606 Biochemistry: Goodrich and Duesberg

determine the efficiency with which Harvey proviruses with
a nonviral 3’ terminus may acquire an authentic retroviral
terminus fram a helper virus by homologous recombinatton,
we studied Harvey proviruses that carried defined sequences
homologous to MoV 3° of their selectable. transforming ras
genes. The Harvey proviruses pH1/RSNheH and pRSVH
each carried a 1.2-kb Neo I-resistant restriction fragment of
the Moloney proviral eny gene, which had been inserted 3° of
their ras genes. The Harvey constructs pRSVABES and
pRSWAH contained 512 and 32 bases, respectively, of the env
gene of MoV. Each of these proviral plasmids also lacked the
§-most 215 nucleotides of the 5° LTR, up to the 3’-mast
EcoRV site of the U3 region (15), and all retroviral sequences
¥ of the added env region (Fig. 1). Plasmids pRSVH,
pRSWAH, and pRSWABH differed from pHI/RSNhel Lin that
a 1.i-kb DNA region that included the presumed RNA
packaging site (W) of Harvey virus was replaced by the
equivalent from Moloney proviral DNA (14-16). These pack-
aging variants were constructed to avoid a possible bias of
helper MoV against packaging HaSV RNA and hence against
RNA-mediated recombination.

Three days after superinfection with Mo¥, clonal cultures
of 3T3 cells transformed by Harvey proviruses pH] /RSNheH
and pRSWH, which contained 1.2 kb of the MoV env gene,
generated HaSV at 3 + 1.6 x 10* ffu/ml and MoV at 10°10”
pfu/ml. The Harvey clone with 512 bases of the MoV env
gene, pRSYABH, gave rise to HaSV at 6.4 + 5 10° fru/mi,
and the Harvey clone with 32 bases of the MoV env genc,
pRSWAH, generated 1.6 + 0:8 x 10? flu of HaSV per 10°10
pfu of MoV (Fig. 1).

We also tested HaSV regeneration by recombination be-
tween MoV and Harvey proviruses lacking retroviral 3°
termini but carrying env regions derived from the AKR and
NZB murine retroviruses (15, 17, 18) 3’ of ras (Fig. 1). The
env sequences from these viruses are about 50% related to
MoV (15, 17, 18). The Harvey provirus with a 610-base Rel
ILresistant fragment from the env gene of AKR virus,
pRSYAKR, generated 1.9 x 10° ffu of HaSV per 10*-10" pfu
of MoV. Similarly, a Harvey provirus with a 636-base Bg!
H-EcoRV fragment from the env gene of NZB virus,
pRSYNZB, generated 1.3 x 10? flu of HaS¥ per 10°10" pfu
of MoV (Fig. 1).

It follows that efficient, homologous recombination had
occurred between HaS¥ and MoV and that the efficiency of
recombination was proportional to the extent of sequence
homology between the respective HaSV construct and MoV.

The Harvey proviruses that differed only with regard (o the
MoV versus the HaSV origin of the RNA packaging sites,
pH1/RSNheH and pRSWH, generated virtually identical
yields of recombinants, namely, 3 + 1.6 versus 4,743.1
104 ffu/mil (Fig. 1). This result indicated that the helper MoV
did not discriminate between HaSV RNAs on the basis of
these different packaging sites.

Mechanism of Homologous Recombination. The homolo-
gous recombination observed here could occur at three
distinct stages after infection: (a) between the input Harvey
provirus and unintegrated or integrated Moloney provirus,
(6) between two viral RNAs generating a recombinant CONA
during reverse transcription in a newly infected cell, or (c)
between secondary proviruses generated in newly infected
cells. Three groups of experiments were carried out to
distinguish between these alternatives.

() Since the removal of homology by splicing would lower
the probability of recombination between viral RNAs or
between DNAs transcribed from viral RNA, but not that
between input DNAS, two Harvey proviruses were compared
that differed only in the presence of splice signals flanking an
otherwise identical MoY-derived env sequence. pRSNSH
and pRSNASA (Fig. 1). Recombinant HaSV at about 3.3 x
10° ffu/ml was obtained from the provirus with a spliceable

40024985

Proce, Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87 (1990)

cay region, compared to 3.9 x Lot ftu/ml from the presirus
without two splice signals (Fig. 1). ‘Thus, HaS¥ regeneration
was decreased about 10-fold, probably by a 90% efficient
removal of the eas sequences from pRSNSH by splicing
HaSV regenerated from pRSNSH stil contained the car
region {data not shown), indicating that these viruses aruse
from unspliced RNA. Indeed, splicing from cay splice signals
was expected to be leaky, as in natural provirus transcription
(15). It appears that homologous recombination ia our system
occurred after provirus transcription.

Gi) 1f homologous recombination occurred between the
comman env regions af the input Harvey provirus e.g.
pR5SWH) and Moloney provirus, recombinant proviruses and
viral RNAS of about 3.9 kb would be capecied in provirus
transfected cells after superinfection with MoV. The 3.9-kb
size is the sum of the HaS¥-specific region and the MoV-
specific region that lie 5’ and 3’, respectively, of their common
envy homology (Fig. 1). To lest for such a recon:binant provirus
the DNA from cells transformed by pRSW EH and superinfected
with Mo¥ was digested with restriction enzymes Hind IIL and
Cla 1 to generate a recombinant-specific 2.4-kb DNA fragment
from the predicted 3,9-kb recombinant provirus (Fig. 1). Afler
electrophoresis in 1% agarose the DNA was blotted onto
fitrocellulose and hybridized with a 1.3-kb BamHI and NAc
Lresistant HaSV ras-specific [?PJDNA (see pHI/RSNhell,
Fig. 1) according to published procedures (22). Consistent with
the splicing experimemt described above, no recombinant:
specific 2.4-kb DNA was found in such cell DNA under
hybridization conditions that detect single-copy genes in mam-
malian cells—namely, hybridization of 5 yg of cell DNA with
10* cpm of ras-specific [2P]DNA of >10* cpm/ug (Fig. 24.
lane 1).

Instead, ras-containing pRSVH DNA fragments of unpre-
dictable sizes Were present in well over two copies per cell,
based on comparison to a probable prow-ras restriction
fragment of about 5 kh (see below). Their concentration atsa
exceeded the concentration of the Harvey proviral DNAs
found in virus-infected cells (Fig. 2A, lane 2). As expected
from the transformed phenotype of these cells, the ras gene
of pRSWH was intact, generating a L.i-kKb fil Lf-resistant
fragment (Fig. 2A, lane 1) that initiated in pBR322 just 5’ of
the EcoRV site of the truncated LTR and terminated at the
Hind site of ras (Fig. 1).

Further, we tested whether 3.9-kb recombinant HaS¥
RNA was detectable in virus released by pravirus-trans-
formed cells superinfected with MoV, The viral RNAs were
prepared from virus harvested at 12-hr intervals to avo
thermal degradation (23). Despite these precautions agains!
degradation, heterogeneous HaSV KNAS af >9 to <2 kb
were observed in virus from pRSWH-transformed 373 cells
superinfected with MoV (Fig. 2#, lane 1). The heterogencity
of this RNA is probably genuine, because in the absence of
an authentic 3° termiqus the RNAs from the truncated
Harvey proviruses terminate at nonspecific sites in plasmid
orcellular DNA sequences. Clearly this experiment does not
exclude a small amount of 3.9-kb recombinant RNA obscured
by the high background of heterogeneous HaSV RNAs.

Since the probability of HaSV recombination was reduced
by climination of homology with MoV through splicing and
since no recombinant HaSV DNA or RNA was found in
provirus-transformed cells, we conclude that there is no
detectable homologous recombination between truncated
input Harvey proviruses and MoV.

(iii) If recombination in our system occurred during or after
reverse transcription, cells infected and transformed with
virus released from pR5‘VH-transformed and MoV-infected
cells, termed RSWH 1° virus, would be expected to contain
3.9-kb recombinant proviral DNA and to release virus with
3.9-kb recombinant RNA. As shown in Fig. 2A, lane 2, a
Hindt/Cla 1 digest of the DNA from RSYH 1° virus-