Proc. Nan, Acad. Ser USA
Vol. 87, pp. 3604-3608, May 1990
Piochenusiry

Evidence that retroviral transduction is mediated by DNA,

not by RNA

(Harvey murine sarcoma virus/Moleney murine retrovicus/provirus altcration/ transfection / recunsbination)

Davin W. GoooricH*® AND PEeTRR EL. DUESBERG

Deparemeat of Molecule and Cell biology. Uaiversity of California. Berkeley. CA 94720

Contributed by Peter H. Ducsberg, February 26, 1990

ABSTRACT Retroviral transduction of cellular nucleic
acid sequences requires illegitimate RNA or DNA recombina-
tion. To test a model that postulates transduction via efficient
illegitimate recombination during reverse transcription of viral
sand cellular RNAs, we have measured the ability of Harvey
sarcoma viruses (HaS¥Vs) with artificial 3’ termini to recover a
retroviral 3° terminus from helper Moloney virus (MoV) by
iNegitimate and homologous recombination. For this purpose,
mouse NIH 313 cells were transformed with Harvey proviruses
and then superinfected with Mo¥. The proviruses lacked the 3’
long terminal repeat and an untranscribed region of the 5 long
terminal repeat to prevent virus regeneration from input
provirus. Only 0-H focus-forming units of HaSV were gen-
erated upon Mo¥ superinfection of 3 106 cells transformed
by Harvey proviruses with MoV-unrelated termini. This low
frequency is consistent with iegitimate DNA recombination
via random Mojoncy provirus integration 3° of the transform-
ing viral ras gene in the 10°-kilobase mouse genome. When
portions of murine vical envelope (env) genes were attached ¥
of ras, 10°-405 fucus-forming units of HaS¥ were generated,
depending on the extent of homology with env of Mo¥. These
recombinants all contained ElaS¥-specific sequences $' and
MoV-specific sequences 3’ of the common env homology. They
were probably generated by recombination during reverse
transcription rather than by recombination among either input
or secondary proviruses, since (i) the yield of recombinants was
reduced by a factor of 10 when the env sequence was flanked
by splice signals and (ii) HaSV RNAs without retroviral 3°
termini would be inadequate templates for provirus synthesis.
We conclude that there is no efficient illegitimate recombina-
tion in retroviruses. In view of known precedents of illegitimate
DNA recombination, the structure of known viral onc genes,
and our evidence for illegitimate DNA recombination via
provirus integration, we favor the DNA model of transduction
over the RNA model.

 

Retroviral transduction of oncogenic sequences requires
either RNA- or DNA-mediated illegitimate recombination.
Based on an experimental system that appeared to involve
“surprisingly efficient” illegitimate recombination by RNA
template switching during reverse transcription (1), the RNA
model is currently favored (1-11). This model holds that a
retrovirus would integrate upstream of a proto-onc gence,
spontaneously lose its 3’ terminus, or fail to terminate during
transcription (9), and produce a 5S’ viral-3’ proto-onc MRNA.
In a second step, the cellular 3’ region of this hybrid RNA
would recombine with the nonhomologous 3’ region of an
intact (helper) retrovirus during reverse transcription in order
to obtain a retroviral 3’ termiaus. A competing DNA model
holds that all steps of retroviral transduction are mediated by
iMlegitimate primary DNA recombination (12).

 

The publication costs of thés article were defrayed in part by puge charge
payment. This article must therefore be hereby marked “eddvertisentent™
in accordance with 18 U.S.C. $1734 solely to indicate this fact.

3604

40024983

The experimental systear on which the RNA madel is
based showed efficient regeneration of Harvey murine suar-
coma virus (HaSV} from cells that were transformed by a
J -truncated Haevey provirus and then superinfected with
Moloney virus (MoV). The mechanism was assumed to
reflect efficient illegitimate recombinatian between HaSV
RNA and MoV RNA ducing reverse transcription (1). How-
ever, this system did not caciude HaS¥ regeneration involy-»
ing recombination beliween elements of the input Harvey’
provirus alone. Indeed, the truncated input provirus con-
tained an intact 5’ long leeninal repeat (1-TR}, a packaging
sequence, and a complete transforming ras gene (1) and thus
all the elements essential for regeneratian of infectious
HaSV.

A reinvestigation of the above system demonstrated that
the efficient regeneration of HaSV in this system depended
entirely on an untranscribed U3 region trom the 5’ LTR of the
truncated provirus (12). Since the RNAs transcribed from
Harvey provirus with an intact §’ LTR, which did regenerate
transforming virus, and from provicus with a truncated 5°
LTR, which did not regencrate transforming virus, were
identical, we conchided that HaSV regeneration did not
involve illegitimate recombination with MoV during or after
reverse transcription. Instead we proposed that FlaS¥ was
regenerated from troncaled proviral DNA elements with
intact 8" LTRs by illegitimate recombination during trans-
fection (12). The high frequency of this process was sug-
gested toreficct tandem integration during transfection of the
Harvey provirus (12). Indeed, multiple Harvey proviruses
were originally abserved in cells transformed by 3’-truncated
Har proviruses (1, 13).

In an effort to distinguish between the two models of
transduction, we have determined conditions under which a
Harvey provirus with an artificial 3’ terminus can recover a
correct retroviral ¥’ terminus from MoV by illegitimate and
homologous recombination. HaSV regeneration from input
provirus was precluded by studying proviruses with a single
truncated, instead of a complete, §* LTR (12).

 

 

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Defective Harvey sarcoma proviruses with and without cav-
related sequences were constructed as follows (Fig. 1).
Harvey proviral plasmid pRSW was derived from pHI/
RSNhe (12). The L.t-kitobase (kb) Xba 1 (~151]}-Seee 1 [940]
restriction fragment, containing the presumed Harvey RNA
packaging signal (14, 15), was removed from pH1/R5Nhe,
and the remaining Sac I sile [940] was modified by attach-
ment of an Xba Elinker to make pRSNASX. The numbers in
brackets refer to sequence pasitions of HaSV (15). The

Abbreviations: HaSV, Harvey sarcoma virus; MoV, Moloney virus;
LTR, long terminal repeat: Hu. focus-farming unit(s); pfu, plaque-
forming unit(s).

*Present address: Department of Pathology, School of Medicine.

University of Califorma at San Diego. La Jolla, CA 92093,