Biochemistry: Gouderch and Duesberg

 

 

t ‘ i 1 ' tu parent
0 ’ 2 3 4 kb
name) Oo fe -——_——— 190 Ish
pommel |
AY x0 Sar
eoret lv fost 8/0 [sh
a 3
prsunze ee YT 13x10" [se
| z
DAS PAKH ees 19x10 [shy
x7 2
PASTA et 18 08x10 (4

 

 

 

 

 

 

pasrapn maf] ¥ 642 $0019"
svn STP roo are 31x30"
Hull Av i
onrgimes Zl] bes Jee gor 1eat0" (a
HERW

 

ens

 

i “
Hea Bam Hpatico Ca koa

 

 

 

 

ores IP ee aox18 ed
£9 SA

preset TPH ee gontoten
so

Fic. 1. Genetic structures of truncated Harvey sarcoma provi-
ruses and their ability to recombiae with MoV. The Hart vie
ruses differ with regard to the presence or absence of ar ally
added sequences that are homologous to the env gene ot MoV ¥ of
the ras coding region and with regard to the HaS¥- or MoV-derived
(Y) origin of their RNA packaging sites. The single 5° LTRs (gray)
of all Harvey proviruses are trancated up to the EcoRV site (marked
by a jagged line) of the U3 regian (15), Transcription originates from
the repeat (R) region within the L-TR (15), which is marked by two
vertical bars. Restriction enzyme sites (RY. EcoRV: HIN, Hind:
Sac, Sac 1) essential for the construction and definition of the
proviruses are indicated (Materials and Methods). SI) is a splice
donor and SA a Splice acceptor. Focus-forming units (ffu) of recom
binant HlaS¥ obtained 3 days after superinfection of transformed
cells with helper MoV are either from single determinations (sd) or
Means 2 standard deviation of four determinations. The titers of
MoV were 10°10? plaque-forming units (pfu}/aul. as determined by
the XC plaque assay (21), in each of the experiments for which ftu
are recorded.

   

 

716-base Xba I-Pst [ restriction fragment from a proviral
MoV clone, p7ZAP (12, 16), which includes the MoV RNA
packaging site (14, 15), was madified by placing Xba } linkers
on the bluat-ended /’si J site. The modified fragment, ¥. was
then inserted into the Xbu I site of PRINASX to make pRSY.

Plasmid pRSWH was made from pRSW by inserting an Neo
Ilinker into the BamHI site of pBR322, 196 bases 3’ of the ras
gene, to create pRSNASXN, and then putting the 1.2-kb Neo
1 env restriction fragment from pZAP into this Neu I site.
pHL/RSNheH was made from pR5¥ by replacing the 1.7-kb
EcoRV-Nhe | region with the 1.9-kb EroRV [~232)-Nhe |
[1695} fragment from pHI/R5SNhe. pRS¥ABH was made by
partial BamHI digestion and religation of pRSWH. which
contains three BamHt sites, two overlapping the Nev |
linkers flanking the eny region and one in the env region itself,
A clone with a deletion from the BamFL site in env to the 3
BaniHt site was selected and termed pRSYARH. It had lost
the 690 bases at the 3’ end of the env homology of pRSWH.
PRSVAI was constructed by Nhe | and fpa | digestion of
PRSVH and religation after modification of the Nhe 1 site
with Klenow polymerase to create a blunt end. pRSYAH

40024984

Prov, Nail. Acat Sei USA S87 (1991) 36015
retains only 32 nucteotives af cay. namely. those 3° of the
Upa {site to the Noo bsite pf can

Plasmids containing eve regions from AKR and NZB
Murine retroviruses Were derived ay Fallows. A 610-bise Hyd
Hl restriction fragment from the env gene of AKK pravirus
(15, 17) was ligated to the compatible pHR322 Berit EE site of
pRIY¥ to generate pRSVAKR. pRIVNZB was constructed
by insertion of a 634-base fel [-ReuRV ony fragment from
the xenolrupic NZB provirus (15, 18), whase EcoRV blunt
end had been moditied by attachment of a Ag I linker, into
the BamH site of pBR32? 3’ of the ray sequence af pRSY,

Twa plasmids containing cay regions flanked by splicing
signals were derived fram pS. A syathetic oligonucleotide
with an Nie I-compatible 5° end followed successively by a
Mo¥ splice donor (15), an Nee E site, a Mo splice acceptor,
and a Basil) compatible end was inserted inte the Nhe band
Bumlll sites of pHR322 to create pPER/S. The BeoR¥-Nhe
1 ras-containing region of pifi/RSNhe was then placed into
the EcoRV and Nhe 1 sites of pRR/S to make pRIN/S.
Finally, the 1.2-kb Moo Eeny fragment of MoV was inserted
into the NcoI site of the oligonucleotide to create pRSNSH.
The plasmid pRINASA was made from pRSNSH by remay-
ing the 3° cnd of the env region of MoV, including the splice
acceptor, froma ffpal stte upto the Ara | site of pBRI22 and
religating the blunt ends.

 

 

RESULTS

Rare Megitimate Recombination Between ElaSV and Mey.
To test the frequency of illegitimate recombination beiweea
HaS¥ and MoV, we measured regeneration of HaSVs from
Harvey proviruses with artificial, heteralogous 3’ termini by
recombination with MoV. The Harvey proviruses pH1/
R5Nhe and pRS¥ cach lacked the 5'-most 215 nucleotides of
the §’ LTR. up to the 2'-mast EcoRV site of the U3 region
(15), and all retroviral sequences 3” of rus (Fig. 1). These
defective Harvey proviruses were transfected inte mause
NIH 343 cells (12. 19) together with pSV2neo, a plasmid
carrying a neomycin-resistance gene, so that cells that had
not taken up transfected DNA could be rapidly eliminated by
selection with the neontycin analogue Gid18 (20). Two weeks
after transfection, foci of morphologically transformed.
G418-resistant cells were observed. These results contirmed
and extended our previous observations that despite truaca-
tion of the 8° LTR up to the LcoRV site, the Harvey
proviruses tested expressed sufficient viral ras RNA for cell
transformation and packaging by helper MoV (12) (see be-
tow).

Clonal cultuces of morphologically transformed 373 cells
were then prepared from isolated foci and HaSV regeneration
was measured 3 days after superinfection of about 3 * 10°
transformed cells with Mo¥. In most such experiments no
HaS¥ was recovered and in some low yields were observed.
For example, 1] ffu/ml were recovered in one experiment
from cells transformed by pH/RiNhe and & ftu/ml from
cells transformed by pRS (Fig. 1). These results extended
our previous study in which no measurable titer of HaS¥ was
observed, passibly because fewer cells were studied in fewer
experiments (12). Indeed, the recovery of HaSV observed
here was dependent on particular cell clones. The frequency
of this event was about 1000-fold tower than previously
reported for Harvey provicuses with intact 5’ LTRs (1, 12).
‘The titer of helper MoV was 10-10" pfu/ml as measured by
the XC plaque assay (21) (Fig. 1), The low yields of HaSV are
consistent with illegitimate recombination between the inte-
grated Harvey provirus and Moloney provirus via random
provicus integration into the 10°kb mouse genome (see
Discussion),

Efficient, Nomology-Dependent Recombination Between
Mo¥ and HaS¥ with Artificial MoV-Related Sequences. To

~~