State Update, Page 2

SMOKING BANS & RESTRICTIONS

 

On March 27, Maryland Governor Glendening signed into law a bill that provides exemptions from
the Department of Licensing & Regulation's workplace smoking ban, which was adopted in 1994.
The bill prohibits the department from banning smoking in establishments with liquor licenses for
on-premise consumption, hotel/motel bars and clubs. The department's workplace regulation,
adopted by administrative action, prohibits smoking in all places of employment, including
restaurants, bars and hotel/motel rooms. On April 3, Maryland Circuit Court found the regulation to
be properly enacted, valid and enforceable. Both the regulation and its legislated exemptions are
now in effect.

A few other states have passed minor smoking restriction bills. A measure that bans the use of
tobacco products on school property has been signed by the Vermont Governor; a similar bill awaits
action by the Illinois Governor. The Rhode Island Governor is considering action on’ a bill to
prohibit smoking in the State House. Also, the Utah Govemor has signed a bill that exempts Indian
religious ceremonies from the 1994 smoking law.

Two states, Massachusetts and Rhode Island, are considering restaurant smoking bans. The
Massachusetts legislature has also heard the introduction of an accommodation bill that would allow
owners/managers of restaurants to designate up to 40-percent of their seating as smoking. An
Oregon bill that died in committee at adjournment would have prohibited smoking except in
designated areas in business establishments that are closed to minors by law, and in workplaces
where minors are not present.

An additional 13 states have limited smoking restriction bills pending. Four states are still
considering bills to preempt local smoking restrictions; 13 states have defeated preemption bills. One
state, South Dakota, has enacted legislation that establishes the state as the regulator of tobacco
matters relating to the use of the product. However, 15 legislatures have introduced bills to repeal
their existing preemption laws; ten of these states have defeated the bills. Two states are considering
bills that clearly authorize localities to impose their own restrictions; two other states have defeated
such legislation. ,

Legal action continues in Washington where the state Department of Labor & Industry began
enforcement of its smoking regulation on October 10, 1994. Smoking in office workplaces is
prohibited or limited to enclosed, separately ventilated smoking rooms. On February 24, the
Commissioner of the state Supreme Court denied a request to review previous courts’ decisions that
denied an injunction to suspend the effective date. Thurston County Superior Court will consider the
original challenge in December 1995,

£209 S6ETS