State Update, Page 4
OTHER CRITICAL ISSUES, cont’d:

Massachusetts lawmakers have proposed a bill amending the 1994 budget bill provision that
authorizes the state to file suit against cigarette manufacturers for costs of care attributed to
"smoking-related" disease. The proposed bill clarifies the right to file a class action lawsuit, does not
require evidence to a particular person's illness, and strips the defenses of assumption of risk,
comparative negligence and contributory negligence. The state Attomey General has announced
plans to file a lawsuit against tobacco manufacturers.

In 1994, the West Virginia Attorney General filed a lawsuit against all tobacco manufacturers for the
recovery of costs from “tobacco-related illnesses;” the suit also charges the tobacco industry with
violation of anti-trust and consumer protection laws. However, a Circuit Court judge struck down
eight of the ten counts in the state attomey general’s suit, but will allow the Attomey General to
pursue allegations that the industry violated state consumer protection and anti-trust laws. A similar
lawsuit was filed in Minnesota against cigarette manufacturers by the Attorney General, along with
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Minnesota, Plus, the Attorney General of Mississippi filed a lawsuit
against tobacco manufacturers in an attempt to recoup costs of providing Medicaid care related to the
use of tobacco products. These three states and Florida are cooperating in the lawsuits.

Other issues of interest include a bill in Maryland that would have prohibited the "spiking" of
cigarettes, defined to mean the increasing of nicotine or ingredients and/or the manipulation of
ingredients. The Senate bill died in a House committee upon adjournment. Similar issues were
raised in the Massachusetts budget, which was signed by the Govemor this month. Prior to the
conference committee removing non-revenue tobacco amendments, the House version would have
prohibited the sale of tobacco products that contain nicotine after the year 2002, and would have
Tequired ingredients to be listed on the exterior packaging of tobacco products after the year 2002.
The Senate budget included language that also required ingredients to be listed on the exterior
packaging of tobacco products, except for chemicals or substances considered trade secrets or
confidential by federal or state law. Manufacturers of cigarettes, snuff or chewing tobacco also
would have been required to disclose ingredients in individual brands and their nicotine yields
annually to the Department of Public Health. A separate bill that would prohibit sale of tobacco
products with nicotine remains pending in the Massachusetts House. The Senate has agreed to
suspend rules and allow the introduction of a bill that would require disclosure of ingredients and
nicotine yields of individual brands. It awaits House agreement for suspension of rules.

HHH

6269 96ETS