State Update, Page 3

SALES/SAMPLING/ADVERTISING & ADAMHA

 

Legislators in North Carolina enacted a state uniform sales law on June 13. The bill prohibits
localities from enacting more stringent restrictions on the sale, distribution, display or promotion of
tobacco products after September 1, but does allow for additional local limits on tobacco vending
machines. It also prohibits persons from enlisting minors to purchase or attempt to acquire tobacco
products, except for local law enforcement officials. Texas lawmakers have approved a bill for the
Govemor’s action that also would provide for a uniform state law on sale, distribution, advertising,
display and promotion of tobacco products, and provide for necessary enforcement to comply with
federal ADAMHA requirements. The Governor has until June 19 to act on it, The bill also would
require tobacco retailers to be licensed, vending machines to be restricted, and distribution of sample
tobacco products to be prohibited within 500 feet of schools. Alsq awaiting gubernatorial action are
bills in Illinois and New Hampshire that impose restrictions on tobacco vending machines.

Thus far this year, 20 states have introduced bills to prohibit localities from enacting ordinances or
regulations on sales, marketing or distribution of tobacco products; ten states have defeated such
legislation. All of those state bills, plus bills that are pending in an additional seven states, provide
compliance with federal Substance Abuse & Mental Health Services Administration (formerly
ADAMHA) requirements for enforcement against the sale of tobacco products to minors. Sixteen
states have heard the introduction of bills to repeal preemption or to authorize local restrictions; nine
of those states have defeated their bills.

Nine states have bills that would severely restrict marketing practices. Pennsylvania and Rhode
Island have bills that would prohibit self-service displays of tobacco products; Indiana, Maine,
Nebraska, Oregon and Utah have already defeated similar legislation. Legislatures in Massachusetts,
Michigan and Rhode Island have heard the introduction of bills to prohibit outdoor tobacco
advertising; Oregon has defeated one. Massachusetts and New Hampshire lawmakers have
introduced sampling ban bills. An additional six states are considering various outdoor advertising
restrictions, and seven states have bills that would limit distribution of sample products and coupons.

OTHER CRITICAL ISSUES

 

On June 15, Florida Governor Chiles vetoed a bill to repeal the 1994 law on Medicaid
reimbursement that strips third-party entities of defenses against liability and allows causation to be
determined by statistical evidence. The 1994 law also is being challenged in court by a coalition of
tobacco companies and business groups. However, the Florida Attomey General filed a lawsuit in
March 1995 against tobacco manufacturers based on the 1994 law.

Eight states have heard the introduction of bills that, at the least, would authorize the state to sue third
parties for the recovery of state Medicaid expenditures. Some of the bills prohibit the use of
affirmative defenses and allow causation to be proven through statistical analysis. States with
legislation pending include California, Maine, New Jersey, and New York. Bills in Kansas and
Vermont died upon adjournment earlier this month, but both bills carry over to the 1996 session.
Bills in Connecticut and Oregon died in committee at adjournment.

eceo 96ETS