The Tobacco Institute . June 16, 1995

1995 STATE UPDATE & OUTLOOK
TOBACCO LEGISLATION, REGULATION & BALLOT MEASURES

OVERVIEW

To date, 49 state legislatures have convened their 1995 sessions. Kentucky, the only state not
scheduled to have a regular session this year, has already held a special session on taxes. Lawmakers
in 33 states have adjourned their regular sessions, and an additional six states are expected to adjoum
by the end of June. Ilinois and Michigan lawmakers have completed their regular session business
and have recessed for the summer, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania are expected to do the same
by the end of this month.

TAXES

Despite opposition efforts, legislators in South Dakota passed the first tobacco tax increase in 1995.
The bill, signed by Governor Janklow on March 16, adds 10 cents to the current 23-cent cigarette
excise tax, imposes a new 10% tax on other tobacco products, and establishes the state legislature as
exclusive regulator of matters relating to the use of tobacco products. A second tax increase was
signed into law on April 12 by Vermont Governor Dean. Included in the funding for indigent health
care were a 24-cent cigarette tax hike and 21% increase in the OTP tax rate.

An Oregon tax bill awaits Governor Kitzhaber’s approval. The bill would extend the sunset date for
10 cents of the current 38-cent cigarette excise tax until January 1, 1998; the tax was scheduled to be
reduced this year. Other attempts to raise the cigarette tax in Oregon failed this year. In Wisconsin,
a group of legislators requested a 50-cent hike in the cigarette excise tax; however, the Joint Finance
Committee reported its budget without any tobacco taxes. Wisconsin legislators may still introduce a
separate bill to recover the state’s “smoking-related” expenditures or attempt to amend the budget.
Eight other states are considering cigarette tax increases.

Thus far this year, cigarette tax increases have been defeated in 14 states, including a 25.1-cent hike
in Florida, 40-cent hike in Hawaii and 18-cent increase in Montana. Lawmakers in Minnesota
rejected seven bills to increase tobacco taxes and seven more attempts to amend the House omnibus
tax bill. Also, attempts in Washington to repeal the 26-cent cigarette tax increase, scheduled to be
implemented over the next two years, were unsuccessful.

9209 96ETS