® mainstream smoke - smoke issuing from or inhaled through the mouth end of a
cigarette (compare to sidestream smoke - smoke issuing from any partofthe 2078853418 -
cigarette except the mouth end (except through static burning), i.e. smoke issuing
from the burning end, through the paper etc.)

* tipping paper - paper (usually cork-like or opaque white in appearance) wrapper
around the filter, joining it to the end of the tobacco rod (check with your local
factory/operations people for the translation into your language)

« = filter tow - cellulose acetate processed into bundle form for use in filter making (check
with your local factory/operations people for the translation into your language)

e plasticizer - a softening agent added in small quantities to the filter tow to tack the
fibers together at the points where the filaments cross each other (check with your
local factory/operations people for the translation into your language)

* plug wrap - the wrapper in which the filter material (e.g. cellulose acetate) is
contained (check with your local factory/operations people for the translation into your
language)

« adhesive - glue used in the manufacture of cigarettes, e.g. sideseam adhesive to seal
the cigarette paper into a rod around the filler (check with your local factory/operations
people for the translation into your language)

* for more detailed technical explanations of these terms, see attached:
<< File; Detailed
definitions.doc >>
QUESTIONS

e What is the function of the U.S. Surgeon General and where is its place in the
administrative structure? The Surgeon General is the chief medical officer of the U.S.
Public Health Service or in a state public health service. The U.S. Surgeon General is
the nation’s leading spokesman on matters of public health, and his/her office is part of
the Department of Health and Human Services, one of the executive agencies in the
federal government.

© §6Tipping paper, titer tow, plasticizer, plug wrap, adhesive -- could you please provide
us with a scheme which demonstrates these terms? See individual explanations above
and attached schematic:
<< OLE Object:

Package >>