?

\. Miller

PHILIP M A IN -OFFI RRESP
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592
TO: Sonya Rush DATE: February 4, 1994
FROM: Lauren Herman
SUBJECT: mbri vertising D ini- --_ Fi

The attached is the final report for the Cambridge Advertising Development Mini-Groups
that were conducted in Phoenix, Arizona on January 11th, 12th and 13th. Fifteen mini-
groups were conducted among men and women, ages 25-49 who regularly smoke:
Cambridge/C-Store Private Labels/Distributor Brands or National Deep Discount Brands.
The objectives of this research were to examine opportunities for Cambridge advertising
that would attract interest from the C-Store/Wholesale Competitive Discount Brands'
smokers and also would provide reinforcement to current Cambridge smokers.

It is important to note that research was conducted on the advertising prior to Phoenix: 33
in-depth interviews were conducted on December 14th and 15th in Minneapolis/St. Paul,
Minnesota among men and women, ages 25-54 who regularly smoke: Cambridge/Private
Label/Deep Discount. The objectives of this research were to determine the relevance of
two proposed campaigns ("Side by Side Comparison" & "Testimonial") to Cambridge and
B&W/PL smokers, and determine any negatives associated with either of the campaigns or
their specific executions.

Key Findings

The findings of both rounds of research were consistent. The overall finding being that
the comparison of Cambridge to Store Brands does not appear to be a relevant nor
compelling message to these smokers.

moker

  

For the most part, these smokers appear to be content with what they are smoking. Asa
result, the ads and concepts shown didn't provide a motive to switch. The Cambridge
name did not provide an added advantage, warranting a higher price.

The term "Store Brand" does not appear to be relevant to consumers. The
propositions/benefits conveyed in the concept statements/advertising were determined to be
insignificant/not pertinent to these smokers.

For those not negatively predisposed to Cambridge's taste, some of the claims about
Cambridge would convert them to a purchase only if it was comparably priced to their
current low-priced brand.

Cambridge Smokers

Cambridge smokers do not appreciate the frame of reference to low-priced brands, they see
their brand as being comparable to FM brands in terms of quality but they just pay less for
theirs.

S2ZE9IST 0