Receptor Function:

Neuronal AchRs:

a) Activation of relevant CNS receptor expressed in the striatum (putative
04038283 subtype) is determined in superfusion systems using synaptosomes
loaded with *H-Dopamine. Efficacy greater than 30% is used as a threshold for
determination of ECso. The tolerated threshold of activation is set at 30% based
on historical data. Activation of dopamine striatal synaptosomes is a reflection
of activation of 0462 and/or 03B2 containing receptors. These targets are
relevant to AD and/or PD. Because of that, this screen is the functional filter to
further evaluate compounds.

b) Activation of ion-flux in human recombinant nicotinic 0482 cell line. To
characterize activity on a pure nAChR subtype. Both agonist and antagonist
properties of compounds are evaluated.

Selectivity vs peripheral/ganglionic nAChR
Additional functional assays using human muscle receptor systems in clonal

cells and rat ganglionic preparations are used to evaluate the possible interaction
with peripheral receptors which is taken as an indication of potential side effect
liability.

Secondary Screens

Objectives

To establish the selective nicotinic nature of the compounds in vivo

(pharmacodynamics) and the relationship to pharmacokinetics by:

¢ Confirming the lack of potential side effects in vivo through measurement of
body temperature, heart rate and gross motoric effects (the latter is considered as
a potential indicator for side effects only for AD candidates; for PD candidates
where motoric function is compromised, increased motoric activity is sought)

¢ Confirming the CNS selectivity by assessing cognitive function (AD and PD)
and motoric effects (PD only) of these compounds in early behavioral screens

e Establishing the DMPK profile of the compounds

Description

Safety: .
Compounds having successfully passed the primary screens are evaluated in vivo
for potential side effects and for effectiveness in a primary animal model relevant

COLE 6260S

RJRO000001371017583
70035 3513