to AD and PD. The side effect liability is determined by assessment of heart rate,
and body temperature (preliminary work has shown good correlation between heart
rate and blood pressure in rats).

Behavior:

The behavioral end points for AD and PD include cognitive end-points (required
for AD, desired for PD) , neuroprotection (required for both AD and PD), and
motoric effects (motoric effects is viewed as a potential side effects for compound
candidate for AD but as a required end-point for compounds candidate for PD
where motoric function are altered).

Cognitive assessment is first determined in the step through passive avoidance
paradigm following sub-cutaneous administration of scopolamine in rats to induce
amnesia. Additional cognitive assessment is performed in a different species
(mice) using the Object Recognition Test in the Tertiary assays.

In parallel, compounds are screens for their ability to affect motoric function (hypo-
and/or hyper-locomotion in rats) using locomotor chambers and the open field
paradigms, For select compounds, sub-chronic administration for potential hyper-
sensitization of locomotor responses is performed.

Pharmacokinetics

Early determination of metabolism and pharmacokinetics is conducted at Aventis
using the following battery (metabolism using rat, human microsomes, and rat liver
slices; absorption using CaCo cells (absorption is not an issue in these series);
Combi-PK:critical (bioavailability, brain and plasma levels).

Tertiary Screens
Objectives These screens are established:

1. To identify CNS targets following oral administration of candidates
(microdialysis)

2. To establish acute efficacy through the intended route of administration in
animal models for AD and PD

3. To identify potential long term benefit of candidates (neuroprotection)

Description

Microdialysis studies following oral administration of test compound is performed
in cortex (ACh). These assays identify a measurable relevant CNS end-point for
AD respectively. Microdialysis measurement of dopamine release in striatum (for

cole 6cGes

RJR0000001371017583

70035 3514