FI Principal Investigator/Program Director ‘Last. frst. mocle, _ Sueoka, Noboru

 

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Gwe the following information for the key personnel and consultants anc collaborators. Segin with the principal
investigator‘program director. Photocopy this page for each person

 

 

NAME , POSITION TITLE

Risa Ohkawa _ Doctoral candidate-Sth year graduate studert

 

EDUCATION | Begin with baccalaureate or other initial protessiona!l educauon. sucn as qufsing, and include postdoctoral training |

 

YEAR
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION. ! DEGREE CONFERRED | FIELD OF STUDY
— Fo .
Massachusetts Institute of Technology |
' 2 De ee
Cambridge, MA S. B. _ 1988 » Life Sciences

|
i
|
1

 

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present pasition, list. :n cnrcnological order, previous employment. expererce arc
honors. Key personnat inciude the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate :n the scientific development ar execution of "re arsiect
Key personnal typicaily will inciude all individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees. Dut in some orgjects will include individuals at '"e ™asiers or
baccataureate level provided they contnbute in a substantive way to the scientific development or executian of the project. Include present memcersrip or
any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in chronological order, the titles. ail authors, and complete references to all publications Guneg tre
past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. OO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Doctoral candidate: University of Colorado, Boulder,
Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology department
August 1988-present

Research Assistant: Salk Institute
San Diego, CA
May 1988-August 1988

Minority opportunities program: Salk Institute
San Diego, CA
January 1988-February 1988
May 1987-August 1987
May 1986-August 1986
May 1985-August 1985

National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowship: awarced 1989
currently in third and final year

University of Colorado Predoctoral Fellowship: 1988

 

1993
1994
eee
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91) (Form Page 6) Page FF

Number pages consecutivaly at the bottom throughout the application. Do not use suffixes such as 3a. 3b.