MEMORANDUM January 10, 1989

  
 
 
 
 

 

To: State Activities Policy
T.I. State Legislative
T.I. Regional Vice Pr

From: Walter N. Woodson

 

In anticipation of anti-smoking rhetoric after the release of the
25th anniversary report on "smoking and health" from the surgeon
general, The Institute’s public affairs division is providing
factual information on a number of tobacco-related topics to the
media and general public. Attached are several items you will
find of interest and possible use.

The T.I. press release
. A new booklet, "The Anti-Smoking Campaign: Enough Is Enough"
. An Executive Summary of the above-mentioned booklet

. A January 9 and 11 T.I. advertisement which appeared in major
cities in the following newspapers: Washington Post, NY
Times, LA Times, Chicago Tribune, Philadelphia Inquirer/News,
St. Louis Post-Dispatch, Houston Chronicle, Atlanta Journal/
Constitution, Detroit News, Miami Herald, Portland Oregonian,
Dallas Morning News, Denver Post, Charlotte Observer,
Richmond News Leader/Times Dispatch, Cincinnati
Enguirer/Post, San Francisco C ronicle, USA TODAY

 

 

 

 

. A national survey of public attitudes on a number of
tobacco-related questions

It is clear that public attention to many tobacco issues will be
high this month. In addition to the surgeon general’s report,
the American Medical Association is planning a "Tobacco Use in
America" conference in Houston, January 27-29. Congressional
participants include Reps. Andrews, Durbin, Synar, Luken and
Torricelli. Sponsors have said they will forward conference
recommendations to the new Administration and to the 101st
Congress. No doubt, recommendations will also find their way to
state and local lawmakers.

Please let me know if you have questions or would like us to
share copies of this material with members of your staffs.

Attachments
cc: Mr. Samuel D. Chilcote, Jr. Mr. Charles H. Powers
_ Ms. Brennan M. Dawson - Ms. Susan M. Stuntz
Mr. K.v.R. Dey, dr. Stanley L. Temko, Esq.
Mr. K. Michael Irish State Activities Staff

Mr. Robert J. Lewis

TINY 9017766