Ri Renolde-

Tobacco Company . PETER H. RAMM
Senior Counsel

 

P, ©, Box 2059. .

a

Winston-Salem, NC 27102

910-741-2687
May 8, 1996 Telecopy: 910-741-7598

MEMO TO: Distribution

SUBJECT: FTC Document Request/Document Retention

The Federal Trade Commissiori's Bureau of Competition has notified RJR that it is
conducting a “non-public investigation" to determine if RJR is engaging in unfalr methods of
competition or unfair practices: by entering; Jnto agreements with retailers to maintain the prices
of cigarettes. :

As part of the FTC's notification of the existence.of this inquiry, the FTC has requested
RJR to produce a number of types of documents that are described herein below and to
preserve these types of documents.

The purpose of this mamo is to inform you oft the existence of the FTC's investigation
and to alert you-to the requirement that wa suspend our.normal document retention programs
as to any documents created sincé January 1, 1993 that may be reasonably considered to be
covered by the FTC's document request about aty “price related programs". The FTC has
defined the term “price-retated program”-to include ‘any “program, arrangement or agreement
between RJR and any retallar which contains any condition, requirement, element or eligibility
criterion that pertains or relates, to :the ‘rétallar's,.advertised or sales prices for cigarettes,
including any requirement that the retaller offer R,-J. Reyndlde' cigarettes for sale at the lowest
price, the everyday lowest price, or at price parity with cigarettes manufactured by other
companies, or that-interferes with the retailer's pricing of a competitor's cigarettes, or that
requires the retaller to raise thé price of a competitor's cigarettés. The term includes, but is not
limited to, the Co-Marketing Promotion Accrual Program, the Total Category Partner Programs,
and the Pack Outlet Retailer Partners Programs’.

In additior’'to the broader catégéry of documents referred to above, the FTC placed
particular emphasis on all post-January 1; 1993 documents relating to RJR price related
programs with retailers within the states Of Gdorgia, North Carolina and Virginia. With respect '
to these three states, the requested docurhents may include such things as retail call reports,

“Mea Work for emekers,

9ge9 9L5TS