exc ee ee te eet ae oae
ote 0 mes oo whee 94 Hage Tessienton 2X ee *

Zim

CTT Se

 

28 aucust 1976

BRITISH MEDICAL JOURNAL

about 20%," ® and Wright and colleagues” have recently dis-
cussed in detail the scronegative spondylarthsitides, onc of
which is associated with psoriasis, Hence psoriasis,
& common disorder, may cocxist with rheumatoid arthritis,
another common disorder. but is more often associated with
an apparently identical arthritis which remains scroncgative
and is less aggressive and progressive. It may also present in
the familiar distal form and also as a scroncgative spondyl-
arthritis, and sometimes as both. At the moment, there~
fore, there is enough evidence for us to accept psoriatic
arthritis as an entity distinct and apart from rheumatoid
arthritis, even though the manifestations are often similar or
identical and even though paticnts with classical rheumatoid
arthritis may also have coexistent psoriasis. Patients with
psoriatic arthritis should by definition be scroncgative and free
from rheumatoid nodules. By splitting this disorder off from
rheumatoid arthritis much more has been Jearnt about it, a5
these workers have clearly shown.

“Barber, HS, Annals of the Rheumatic Diseater, 1957, 16, 230.

* Gibberd, FB, Acts Rheumarclogica Scandinavica, 1905, 31, 62.

® Vilanova, X, and Pinol, J, Xhcumacesra, 1951, 7, 197.

4 Wright, V, Annals of the Rhcumatie Diseases, 1956, 15, 348.

® Coste, F, et al, Revue du Rhumatusme et des Maladies Ostéo-Articulaircs,
1958, 25, 75. oe

Roberts, MET, et al, Annals of the Rheumaue Diseases, 1976, 35, 206.

* Read, W B, Heiskell, C L, and Becker, SW, Archives of Dermatology,
1961, 83, 653. .

© Weight, V, Anials of the Rhewmatre Diseases, 1961, 20, 123.

® Wright, V, Stutrock, R D, and Dick, W C, in Recent Advances in Rheumet-

_ ology, Part 2, eds WW Buchanan and WC Dick, p 193. London,
Churchill Livingstone, 1976.

ot
—

 

 

Cigarette smoking in. 7
pregnancy ae

-

.

Cigarette smoking often constitutes an addiction or provides a
form of escape from anxiety about personal problems. But
smoking in pregnancy presents a special case. Firstly, it is a
danger to the child as well as to the mother. Secondly, since
pregnancy is of limited duration a woman who cannot be
persuaded to give up smoking may actept a substitute at least
while she is pregnant. It would be an advance if her craving
. gould be met by a cigarette free from dangers to the babv.
Accordingly, workers have tried to identify whe harmful
components of tobacco smoke.

Carbon monoxide, nicotine, and cyanides are the factors
which seem most likely to have ill effects on the fetus, Studics
of carbon monoxide! ? have indicated that the inctease in
carboxyhacmoglobin may deprive the fetus ofadequate oxygen.
Epidemiological evidence suggests that the type of baby liable
to be harmed by the mother’s smoking is the one already at risk
for some other reason. Nevertheless, analysis of vesttiol
excretion levels has suggested that hypoxia is not the main
influence on retardation of fetal growth.

Large doses of nicotine injected into pregnant tats teduce
birth weight? Suzuki et af! injected nicotune into Pregnant
thesus monkeys and concluded that the concentration pro-
duced by maternal smoking would reduce the fetal oxvgena-

thon. In man Gennser et al® compared the ctlects of nicotine in”

chewing-gum at two strengths, tobaceo cicurettys, and non-
tobacco cigarettes. ‘They measured changes in fetal respiratory
movements and maternal Wood nicotene and carboxyhaemo-
globin levels. ‘The tobacco cigarettes and both strengths of
nicotine chewing-gum raised the fivotine level and the tobacco

and mon-tobacco cigarettes raised the carboxyhacmoglobin
level; but for cach measurcment the tobacco cigarettc had the
greatest effect. Fetal breathing was depressed with the tobacco
Cigarette and slightly less so with the nicotine chewing-gum.
A more recent study has confirmed that fetal breathing move~
ments are reduced in association with cigarette smoking in
normal and abnormal pregnancies." The reduction was
related to the cise in maternal plasma nicotine levels. Non-
nicotine (herbal) cigarettes produced similar rises in carboxy-
hacmoglobin to those caused by tobacco cigarcttes but
without a reduction in. fetal breathing. These studies are
helpful in dissociating the influence of nicotine from that of .
carbon monoxide in regard to this particular effect. Never-
theless, it docs not follow that the effect on fetal respiration
is of practical importance, though circumstantial evidence is
accumulating that it may be.®

Thiocyanate concentrations are raised in the cord blood of
infants born to smoking mothers,” while vitamin B,, levels
are lower in smokers. This may reflect a disorder of cyanide
detoxification"? related to the cyanide of the cigarette smoke.
The lowered appetite which is a recognised concomitant
of smoking may be responsible for a lower maternal calorific
intake and hence tower fetal weight, but a review of the
evidence in 1973 did not suggest that this mattered.’ Since
then, however, other workers have suggested that impaired
gain in maternal weight may be of importance."!

Whit can be done practically 2 Until the metabolites which
are dangerous to the fetus have been identehed with certainty’,

forts to Substitute am aiteTnalive to tobacco cigarettes seem —.

—Beehearere “ATP To peRaUe the mother to reduce or
preferably give up smoking offer the best prospect, though it

is worth bearing in mind that a patient deprived of one satis~
faction for her craving may try to resort to another.

Smoking is best stopped before conception, but there is
evidence that stopping in the first two months of pregnancy
reduces the hazard.? Encouraging the mother to increase
her food intake may be worth trying, burexcessive weight gain
may be harmful, and at present a controlled trial of this
approach seems called for.'® It is mothers in the lower social
classes and with a poor obstetric performance whose babies
are particularly at risk from smoking, and they might well be
guided to special clinics so that maximal effort could be
concentrated on them. Whatever his detailed approach, the
obstetrician must take pains not to be so critical as to drive
the paticnt away from the antenatal cate which he offers but
show compassionate understanding of a common human
frailty. . .

* Younosgai, MK. Kacis, A, and Haworth, ] C, Canadian Medical Ano-
Gidtion Journal, 1968, 89, 197.

# Astrup, P, et al, Lancet, 1972, 2, 1220,

* Cole, P V, Hawkins, L oH. and Roberts, D, Journal of Obsterics and
Gynaccoligy of the British Commontecalth, 1972, 78, 782.

* Target. CS. at af, Jouruul of Obitetrics and Gynuccology of the British
Cummmonievalth, 1973, BO, B15.

5 Public Health Services, The Health Cansegrenas of Smoking, A Report of
the Surgeon Geavral, 1973. Department of Health, Education and
Welfare, DHE’ Publication No. (HMS) 136704, 1973.

a Suruki, K, et ah, clncereun Journal of Cbatervics and Gynecology, 1971, Uh,

' Genser, G, Marsal, K, and Beantmark, lt, American Journal of Obstetrics
and Gyucvology, 1915, 121, 861.

* Manning, F oA, and Feyerabend, C, British Journal of Obsrerrics and
Gynacceligy, 1970, 83, 262.

© Andrews, Ja Janrnal of Obuctrees and Gynaccoluty of the Britih Commen-
aetalth, 1974, BY, S10,

© MeGuarey. J Myand Andrews, J, Ardent Medical Pournai, 1972, 2, 74.

Rush, D, Journal of Obstetercs and Gynecology af the Brith Common>
towetlth, 1874, 1, 746,

43 Davies, 1 Py ot thy Lancet, 1970, $, 385.

” Bugler, S RK, Golditem, Hy apt 8 EAR renal, 1972,

oo fe a

+ te wepninee ee aan +