Ns PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

hey
Dev?) INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

To:
From:

Subject:

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Mr. F. L. Daylor bate: June 22, 1979
L. H. Davis

Urea Replacement Program-~Preliminary Outline

While working with Dr. Swain on the RL improvement project, we
tried various valeric acids, both alone and in combinations, at
several levels. We also tried them as their ammonium salts to increase
their solubilities to give more uniformity as well as to give a
source of ammonia. Because of the low level of those salts that can
be used to give the optimum taste effect, very little ammonia is added
to the filler.

While in Argentina, I injected some of their Marlboro cigarettes
with ammonium hydroxide on the last day there. Those who smoked the
injected cigarettes agreed that the cigarettes were smoother, more
salivating, and tasted more like our U.S. Marlboros. As this was
tried my last day in Argentina, we could not explore it any further,
but it seemed to confirm my thinking that some of the better taste of
RCB compared with RL may be due to the presence of ammonia or compounds
Formed that will generate ammonia on pyrolysis.

On my return we tried ammonium acetate, ammonium carbonate,
ammonium carbamate, and ammonium lactate in #544 blend Marlboro cigar-
ettes containing no urea in the RL. The ammonium carbonate and
ammonium acetate were harsher and drier tasting while the ammonium
carbamate and ammonium lactate were smoother and more salivating.

Dr. Swain requested pilot plant samples of RL made with the
carbamate and lactate salts. We should also evaluate samples made with
these salts incorporated in the aftercutting solution to compare the
retention of the ammonia on the filler when added at the end of the
processing versus that when incorporated in the RL.

If the samples made by incorporating the salts in the sheet or the
aftercutting solution confirm the positive results obtained by injection,
we should screen the ammonium salts of other organic acids such as
gluconic, tartaric, pectic, malic, citric, etc., which have FDA GRAS
Status. Even ammonium salts of some amino acids should be screened,
although glycine may be the best one from cost and availability consider-
ations.

We should review all past work done on RCB to determine what
reaction products containing ammonia and/or nitrogenous compound
precursors are generated in the production of RCB. If such information
is not available, we should initiate a study to give us that information.

. We should also compare the nitrogen-containing pyrolysis products of

RCB with those of RL with and without urea, ammonia, and various ammonium
salts. Such studies should give us clues as to whether it is ammonia
and/or reaction products generated during pyrolysis which give the better
taste to RCB over RL.

CEPPSTLSOZ