CHARGE NUMBER: 6904

PROJECT TITLE: BIOCHEMICAL METHODS DEVELOPMENT AND
UTILIZATION

PERIOD COVERED: March 1-31,. 1982

PROJECT LEADER: R. M. McCuen

DATE OF REPORT: April 1, 1982

1. L5178Y THYMIDINE KINASE MUTATION ASSAY?>?

 

From recent experiments andi a reevaluation of all the data concerning
potential inactive (negative) chemicals tested in this system, two agents
in presence or absence off microsomal activation were found to produce no
mutagenic response: while causing a dose related: increase in toxicity. The
chemicals demonstrating these effects, and thus. were judged to be inactive
in this bioassay, were ethanol and nicotine (tested as nicotine tartrate).
Both of these ageniis have been termed negative in other in vitro and. in vivo:
assays. The importance of this work is that in our laboratories this bioassay
does not show that every agent tested produces a positive biological response.
For any in vitro assay to be useful, it must be able to distinguish between
chemicalis which are known to give a positive or negative response in other
test systems. With these experiments, we now have more confidence in the
‘usefulness of the L5178¥/TK'/- bioassay at PM.

 

 

 

 

2. V79' CHINESE HAMSTER CELL MUTATION ASSAY?

An excellent dose response was obtained using these cells treated with
DMBA and hamster liver S9.as the source of activation. As expected, no
response was observed in the absence of S9. [In the previous experiment,
little or no dose-response was seen with hamster S9 because too high a dase
was tested.] A second experiment was completed this month using DMBA and
and rat Hiver $9 as the source of activation. [Rat liver S9 is the activation
system of choice used in other ini vitro assays at PM.] The results from. this
experiment revealed that, as expected, DMBA was. active only in the presence
of rat liver $9. An almost linear, four point. dose response was observed.
The most important finding was that at least for this chemical the shape and
magnitude of the dose response curve was. almost identical regardless of the
source of the microsomal activation (rat. or hamster liver $9). This. suggests
that rat liver S9:' can be used in future experiments where metabolic activation
is required,

 

3. REFERENCES
1. Penn, d. M. and Ayers, D. J. Notebook No. 7669, pp. 127-130.

2. McCuen;, R. W. Notebook No. 7703, pp. 68-70.
3. Weiissbecker, L. Notebook No. 7533, pp. 79-104.

. Rwy “aos

/tde

zvezobroop