6.

> 5. "Cigarette smoking and UDL cholesterol: the Fram-
ingham Offspring Study" -- R. J. Garrison, Framingham. This
study dealt with the relation of cigarette smoking to high
density lipoproteins (IDL), high levels of which are con-
Sidered a protective factor in C]HD,:in 2449 females and 1958
males aged 20-49. Adjustment was made for obesity and alco-
hol intake. The subjects were part of the Framingham Off-
spring Study, itself a part of the overall Framinham Heart
Study.

Cigarette smoking was found to decrease HDL in smokers
who drank little or no alcohol. Former cigarette smokers
(off cigarettes at least a year) and cigar or pipe smokers
who had never smoked cigarettes had HDL comparable to those
of nonsmokers. Cigarette exposure appears directly related
to HDL level.

The data suggest another explanation for the association
of cigarette smoking with atherosclerosis. "If, indeed, cig-
arette smoking aggravates atherosclerosis by lowering HDL
levels, then the question of whether cessation of smoking
and return to higher NDL levels leads to remission of ath-
\ Smoneneness needs attention."

6. "Influence of cigarette smoking on the natural his-
tory of coronary artery disease" ~- Thomas Gaardcr, Downey,
Cal. In a poster session, Gaarder reported a study in which
progressive obstructive artery disease (POD) was measured
in 135 men and women by coronary arteriography 10-54 months
after initial examination. POD, defined as any increase in
obstruction greather than 25%, occurred in 54 patients; of
these 43 went on to total occlusion.

POD relative to the presence of single (i1VD), double
(2VD) or triple (3VD) vessel disease was measured at four
time intervals. The effect of blood sugar, lipids, blood
pressure, and cigarette smoking on POD also was analyzed
at each time interval in the 2VD and 3VD groups. The most
significant factor related to POD at each time interval was
smoking. The 2VD and 3VD groups showed rapid POD; that in
1VD was much less. It was concluded that smoking had a sig-
nificant adverse effect on coronary change.

7. At a press conference on whether atherosclerosis can
be reversed:

Leoe t8z0s

\ Antonio Gotto, Jr., Houston, There has. been a sig-
nificant decline in the incidence of all forms of CV dis-
4 ease but specific factors responsible can't really by :
identified. There are only inferences from cpidemiologic
surveys of humans and animal studies. There has been a