as 30-40% can be seen when diagnoses are based on soft signs. Too many
studies relating type A as a risk factor rely on angina as a definition of
CAD. Discrete diagnostic endpoints are needed.

Dr. Costa said that anxiety-neuroticism relates differently to angina and
myocardial infarction. The results of his studies suggest that neuroticism is
a risk factor for pseudoangina, or “emotional” angina. Neuroticism leads to
the diagnosis of angina, and the catheterization (for angiography) of the pa-
tient. However, the results of the angiography show that the neurotic patient
does not have CAD.

Dr. Costa then suggested that maybe investigators should measure
agreeableness/disagreeableness. This characteristic has a hostility compo-
nent. If disagreeableness is measured, even with angina-syndrome-only pa-
tients included, disagreeableness should relate to disease. Dr. Williams said
he would use trust/distrust instead.

Dr. Charles D. Spielberger (University of South Florida) next discussed
anger, anxiety, angina and CAD. He said there has not been a lot of research
on anger. There are a lot of angry people who are not aware of it. Anger is
a way of life for them. Researchers once thought hostility and anger were
synonymous. Anger, hostility, and aggression were used interchangeably but
they are not the same. Anger is an emotional state ranging from irritation
and annoyance to a high level of rage. Hostility is a complex of attitudes
with frequent feelings of anger and negative attitudes toward oneself and
other people, including the intention to hurt or injure. It is a trait but
more, i.e., high level trait-anger. Aggression is a behavior, designed to
hurt, injure, or destroy other people. It is also important to distinguish
between the experience, or feelings of anger, and the expression of anger.
How one responds to anger has been termed anger-in if one represses anger, and
anger-out if one expresses anger. Anger-in is related to hostility; it is a
hostile act toward oneself. :

Dr. Spielberger has observed increased blood pressure levels in young
males and females that rate high on anger-in, and low levels in those rating
high on anger-out. ‘The same relationship was seen in Blacks. However, there
are more Blacks in the high anger-in range; therefore increased blood pressure
levels are seen in Blacks as a whole.

Dr. Douglas D. Schocken (University of South Florida) said that angina
patients with no coronary disease were omsidered to be normal; but they may
not be normal. They may have emll vessel disease or suffer from vessel
spasm. There is a need to factor out neurotics with real disease from those
without disease. ‘There was general agreement on this point.

Dr. Larry W. Scherwitz (University of California at San Francisco) dis-
cussed self-involvement, type A behavior and CHD incidence. Self-involved
persons have a narrow concept of who they are and an excessive attachment to

that concept.

Dr. Scherwitz was an interviewer with the MRFIT study and has been study-
ing self-involvement, type A, and CHD by analyzing taped MRFIT interviews. He
said that self-involvement predicts all CHD incidence in MRFIT although the
relationship is not strong; self-involvement is a strong predictor of CHD mor-

tality; low self-involved amokers do not have a significantly increased rela~ '

tive CHD risk ratio fram non-smokers; and high self-involved type A's have

-3-

6€56 EZ7HOS