Dr. Redford B. Williams, Jr. (Duke University Medical Center) opened the
conference with a discussion of hostility and hormones as biobehavioral
mechanisms in CAD. He said that looking at type A behavior is like looking at
total cholesterol. There are a lot of components, some of which are toxic,
some may be protective, and some may not be related to the development of CAD.
The so-called global type A behavior should be broken down into its microcom
ponents and their contributions, individually and in combination with other
components, need to be assessed. The microcomponent concept may explain why
some small angiographic studies have failed to show an effect of type A be-

“havior in CAD. The power of the "toxic" components was not strong enough to
overcome the "protective" canponents in the small studies.

After adjusting for all the standard risk factors, type A behavior is
related to coronary heart disease (CHD) only in people 55 years of age or
younger. This is true for females as well as males but men are at a higher
CHD risk. Dr. Williams said this age effect was there no matter how one looks
at the data. He also said that global type A at sufficient power is related
to CHD, and asked if biologically-vulnerable types A's died earlier and did
not live long enough for the effect of type A behavior to be seen after age
55.

Looking at the components of type A behavior is the next step and all
agreed that type A's have a potential for hostility. (It was also noted that
type B's with CHD exhibit same characteristics of type A behavior, but not
enough to be called type A's.) Another characteristic is the repression of
anger. Those who express their anger do not have an increased amount of CHD.
It was also noted that all risk factors get weaker as age increases. The sug-
gestion was made that if population samples aged 45 years or over are em
ployed, these people may be too old for the effect of many risk factors to be
seen.

Another factor to be considered is that a lot of type A behavior may be
determined by the sympathetic nervous system. Increased levels of cortisone,
norepinephrine, and testosterone have been observed in type A's. Using these
hormones, Dr. Williams is going to see if he can produce atherosclerosis in
the Egyptian sand rat by chronically creating the type A hormonal milieu.!

Dc. Theodore M. Denbroeki (University of Maryland) discussed hostility
and CAD. He said that global type A behavior is primarily characterized by
loud, explosive, rapid speech, i.e.,; a vigorous voice style, and hostile peo-
ple are more likely to speak this way. Some 80-85% of type A's exhibit explo-
sive speech. Dr. Denbroski noted that Rosenman in his Western Collaborative
Group Study found a ratio of type A's to type B's of approximately 50/50.
However later studies, including MRFIT, have had ratios closer to 75/25. He
questioned whether there had been a shift over time of investigators looking
primarily at vigorous speech characteristics.

1 The rat is not a good model for atherosclerosis. However, Dr. Williams said
that this particular rat, a desert animal, develops atherosclerosis readily
when fed a normal diet. Dr. James Blumenthal, also from Duke, told me Dr.

- Williams was also going to use miniature swine, which is a good model.

LES6 ETHOS