In one of Dr. Denbroski's studies, smokers were allowed to either smoke
or shamsmoke during an interview. The smokers‘ heart rate increase was six
times higher than the sham-smokers' and the smokers also exhibited explosive
speech. In MRFIT, 75% of the subjects were smokers and they were not allowed
to smoke before or during their interview. Dr. Denbroski wondered if this had
anything to do with the lack of correlation between type A behavior and CiD
seen in MRFIT. Dr. Dembroski stated that in his study, a comparison of CAD
versus hostility in smokers and nonsmokers showed low-hostility smokers with
low levels of CAD, with CAD level increasing with increasing degrees of hos~
tility. He also said a reviewer required him to delete these findings from
the article prior to publication, saying this detracted from the data. The
people present at the conference agreed the data should have been included.

Dr. Denbroski ended by saying that he observes more hostility in smokers,
especially in femles. The question is, which comes first - the hostility or
the smoking? Dr. Denbroski has been given a grant by the NIH to study this
phenomenon. He said he would send me some data when he returned home.

Dr. Merrill F. Elias (University of Maine) discussed the behavior of 55
persons referred for cinearteriography. There was a high correlation between
clinical and psychological symptoms. He also found that CAD was not predict-
able if patients with angina syndrome only were included in the analysis.
These patients’ arteries are frequently found to be “clean” upon angiography.
It was also stated that since investigators cannot perform angiography on nor—
mal subjects, these angina-syndrome-only patients may be as close to norml
controls as it is possible to have.

Dr. James A. Blumenthal (Duke University Medical Center) was the discus-
sant for the previous presentations. He began by presenting data from some
angiography studies he did in 1973-1974. He found that type A behavior was
related to increased lumen stenosis. He also said that the Jenkins Anxiety
Score (JAS) does not really measure type A; it is not a good measure of coro-
nary prone behavior. Dr. Denbroski interjected that the JAS measures angina,
not CAD.

Dr. Blumenthal found that hostility was related to CAD with those pa-
tients with myocardial infarctions having significantly increased hostility
scores. ‘Total anxiety was negatively correlated with CAD. Patients with high
anxiety had clean arteries on angiography. It appears that people who are
anxious and depressed go for catheterization. Dr. Blumenthal also found a
difference in the source of satisfaction for type A's and type B's. Type A's
derive their satisfaction from work; they are task-oriented. Type B's, on the
other hand, need interpersonal gratification.

The value of angiographic studies, in Dr. Blumenthal's opinion, is to
give subgroups to study; to enable researchers to study the psychological
characteristics of people with one-, two-; or three-vessel disease in a high-
risk population. Serial angiography also enables one to study the progres-
sion, and regression, of CAD.

De. Paul T. Costa; dr. (Baltimore City Hospitals) discussed anxiety-
neuroticism and anger-hostility in relation to CAD. He also said that angina
is not a predictor of CAD. There is a difference in the predictors of angina
and CAD. If angina is not confirmed by anatomical findings, it should not be
called CHD. Angina, ejection fraction, etc. are “goft" signs of CAD versus
“pard" signs such as lesions, sudden death, etc. A misdiagnosis rate as high

-2+

RES6 EZHOS