more than twice the CHD risk of low self-involved type A's. Dr. Scherwitz
said there seems to be some interaction between self-involvement and smoking,
and between self~involvement and type A behavior. He suggested that it was
not whether one was type A that increased CHD risk, but why one was type A.

Dr. Edward G. Lakatta (Baltimore City Hospitals) discussed CAD in autopsy
and living populations. He said there are interactions between aging,
lifestyle, and disease; that perhaps risk factors accelerated the disease pro-
cess. CAD risk factors are for clinical events. However, there is a large
occult factor that is seen at autopsy. Autopsy studies of all categories of
deaths at older ages reveal a higher prevalence of CAD than the CHD incidence
seen in epidemiological studies. Dr. Lakatta hypothesized that
atherosclerosis must be the result of the aging of the vessel itself. He said
there are a number of age-related changes in cardiovascular muscle tissue. He
said scientists are not very good at measuring lifestyle variables ani thinks
risk factors fall] short of the mark. He asked if it really mattered what
someone ate ten years ago or if they emoked a lot?

Dr. Steven B. Manuck (University of Pittsburgh) discussed aggression and
CAD in animal models. He presented data from work done in collaboration with
Drs. Tom Clarkson and Jay Kaplan of Bowman Gray School of Medicine in Winston-
Salem. This work has been reviewed before but a brief summry is included
here.

Type A ami type B behavior was studied in Macaca fascicularus oar
cynomologus monkeys. The monkeys were classed as dominant (type A) and subor-
dinate (type B) according to their behavior and subjected to either socially
stable or unstable conditions. The least amount of coronary atherosclerosis
was seen in the stable, dominant group and the mst in the unstable, dominant.
The unstable, dominant animals had many competing, transient events throughout
the day - they had to constantly fight for their position in the group. The
stable dominants and subordinates knew their positions and did not have the
increases in heart rate ami blood pressure seen in the unstable daminants. On
the physiological level, dominant and subordinate monkeys are much like type
A's amd B's in that dominant monkeys have hyper-responsive heart rates and
blood pressures. This does not occur as frequently in’ the subordinate ani-
mals. The monkeys with hyper-responsive heart rates also have higher corti-
sone, norepinephrine, and testosterone levels.

~4-

Ons6 EZnOS