Draft
Dear Tom:

The compilation put together by the staff is impressive,
even to an old-timer like me with so many years’ involve-

cancer research. Actually, the list is a short one. When
one looks at the numerous studies and projects approved by
the Scientific Advisory Board and funded by CTR, one finds
considerable important data that might not otherwise have
been made available to the scientific community.

Looking back to when I first became associated with CTR,
it is becoming increasingly evident that there are many
weaknesses in the epidemiological and other work some
people rely on when they blame cigarette smoking as being
the major cause of lung cancer and other ailments.

The deficiencies of the tobacco causation hypothesis
and the need of much research are becoming clearer to in-
creasing numbers of research scientists.

r know there are many investigators who look at the to-
bacco hypothesis with an unbiased and impartial eye and
find that it has been over-simplified and over-interpreted.
The propaganda efforts of various groups and agencies have
instilled fear in the mind« of many people. This is to’ be
deplored, the more so because it is not based on good,
honest science

To insist that scientific conclusions be based firmly

on critical and unbiased research is an essential element

in the search for truth. I am convinced the truth will come
in time and only from research.

I_am proud of my years with CTR. I know the members of
the SAB are proud and grateful for the opportunity to de-
velop a program that is aimed only at providing informa-
tion.

The industry can take pride in its support of CTR
through the years. The program of the SAB is a worthy one
and has contributed much to the advancement of scientific
knowledge. Certainly, it is, in my opinion, the largest
and most intensive such program in the world and, I feel,
the most productive in terms of getting solid findings in
the area in which we sre interested.

With kindest regards.

. Sincerely,

BZN 16420