HUDSON, MASS.
SUN
— D. 8,720: —
BOSTON METROPOLITAN AREA

1968

JUL §

Bob Pryor

 

All Lip Service
.. Little Action

Several years ago the U. S, Surgeon General made
an announcement about the hazards of cigarette smok:
ing and the connection with cancer. The Medicatf™®Po-
fession has linked smoking with cancer and poor health,
and a small TV advertising campaign has been sug-
gesting that cigarettes are a healilt hazard.

Congress passed weak legislation requiring the fo!-
lowing words be printed on everv cigarette pack: “Cau.
ticn: Cigarette Smoking May Be Hazardous To Your
Health.”

Now the Public Health Service has released: an-
other report on smoking. The release says ihat a heavy
cigarette smoker may be shortening his life by eight
years if he continues the habit. In addition to calling
the cigarette habit the main cause for lung cancer, the
report said the habit can: contribute to the develop-
ment of fatal heart disease.

This is the first time that the PHS has linked heart
coronaries to cigarette smoking in an official report.
Secretary Wilbur Cohen. of the Health. Welfare, and
Education Department suggested to Congress the words
on cigarette packages should be changed to: “Warning:

igarette smoking is dangerous to health and may
cause death from cancer and other causes.”

The FTC went a step further and suggested that
cigarette advertising should be prohibited on television.

Tt.is obvious the big money interests of the Cigar-
ette Industry will prevent any substantial action by the
Congress. The politicians will use the same excuse that
was used here in Massachusetts recently in regard to
billboard advertising.

A bill to curb billboard. advertising by giving the
towns and cities véf@ power was killed’ because state
representatives argued it would put a lot of people out
of work. This same weak excuse will undoubtedly: he
used in Congress in regard to cigarettes .. . despite the
far more important consideration of the health and. wel-
fare of the people.

The human being is weak. and the only Wav cigar-
ette smokers are going to quit the habit. is through:

. _ Some kind of prohibition. All the verbal and written:

warnings in the world will not curb smoking. Those
with the habit know it’s unhealthy but haven't the will
to stop. I'am no exception.

The Medical Profession tells people they should
not smoke, and many: doctors tell their vatients thev
should quit smoking. But the hollow words fall'on deat
ears because the medical authorities do not practice
vhat they preach and are really. doing little to help
people quit the habit.

If cigarettes are really a health hazard, it is time
that health and medical leaders stonned the “lip serv-
ice” and do something about it, Action speaks louder
than words.

You can still buy cigarettes in hospitals,
You can still buy cigarettes in drug stores.

And in. most medical centers and doctor's offices,

‘ you can still smoke in the waiting rooms. And; many.

doctors who speak against cigarettes are smokers them-
selves.

You can’t buy poisonous drugs in drug stores with-
out a prescription, and you certainly can't get them in
a hosvital. All materials that may be injurious to:one’s
health in a hospital are locked up .. . alll except cigar-
et.es!

Perhaps it’s time. for the Surgeon General. Public
Health Service. Federal Trade Commission, and atl
medical authorities to fish or cuti bait. Fi:Her take. real
action or stop pussy-footing around with a meuth full
of words without teeth,

CEVEO09TOe