Process Technology & Development - Weekly Highlights - —~ _
Page 2 :
© Process Qualifications
: Testing of the steam tunnel vs. steam flotation chamber
at No. 64 began on April 14, 1986. The test brand for
qualifying and future evaluations will be CAMEL 70.
© G-13 Pilot Plant

The first series of batch pilot plant tests have been
completed for determining the relationships between G-13
expansion column vapor composition and the resulting
G-13 product filling capacity. The test series con-
prised (1) varying the air to water ratio, (2) varying
the freon to air ratio, and (3) varying the water to air
ratio at a fixed 28 volume percent freon. The relation-
ships appear extremely synergistic with; product filling
capacities varying from about 625 to in excess of 1000
(ml. per 100 grams). Repeat tests are underway to veri-
fy the accuracy of these relationships.

III. MECHANICAL & INSTRUMENTATION DEVELOPMENT

oO

Trip To Rothmans & MacDonald, Canada

PT&D Mechanical and Instrumentation Division personnel
visited Rothmans Canada to view a tes€ ‘run of RJR cut
filler on the flow-through maker-feed-hopper which is ee
commercially available through Rothmans equipment
development and sales organization. The unit is a
development device to explore options to current maker
hopper technology, and generally manipulates the tobacco
in such a way as to potentially reduce degradation.
Samples of cut filler before and after making are being
analyzed to help guide decision making with respect to
the possibility of purchasing a unit for testing on a
Protos in the R&D pilot plant.

The group also toured Rothmans Quebec City plant and had
a brief visit at the RJR MacDonalds plant in Montreal.
The Rothmans plant features the latest Hauni HT (high
temperature) cut rolled stem (CRS) process and modern
Focke slide & shell cigarette packing equipment. Roth-
mans is currently successful in the market place with
their recently introduced 30's box under a new brand ¥
name "Number 7. MacDonalds has plans to soon replace
their old CRS line with the Hauni HT process and is ex-
panding and modernizing their fine cut packaging facili-
ty- The mechanical group found the special fine-cut and
cigar equipment especially interesting (although old),
in terms of idea generation for possible future unique
projects here at RJRT.

6722 2960S