PHILIP MORRIS WU. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Beb Ferguson Date: December 8, 1989

rom: Bill Kenry (Vicki Baliga, Project Leader) $0.it/ deen

Subject: Videotapes of Burns of Low Sidestream Cigarettes

Samples of three sets of cigarettes obtained from Gordon Bokelman have
been videotaped at a magnification intermediate to those which were used in
the pravious videotape. The cigarettes used were:

DODAT Dual-wrapped with 45 g/M’ outer paper having 35% CaCo,,
{#9569} 0.4% NH,H,PO,, 0.3% NaCMC, and 5% K,succinate, and. inner
paper with 18 g/M? basis weight, 3% CaCO, and

0.6% citrate

D9DAV Single wrapped with high basis weight paper, 68 g/m’,
(#9571) with 35% Caco, and 10% KH,PO,

Marlboro Lights 100's as control

For all three cigazette sample. sets, the burning event took place as we
had seen before, with a period of char followed by a burn, The burn seemed to
move around the circumference of the cigarette in one direction or the other,
sometimes changing direction while on the visible side. Visual observation
of two cigarettes, placed in the chamber so that both sides could be seen,
showed the burn proceeding on one side and then the other alternately in the
same direction. This suggested that the burn did, indeed, circle around the
full circumference in whichever direction it was moving.

The smoke from the Marlboro cigarette was visible in close proximity. to
the rod, and on the images from these tapes the smoke was seen moving upward
along the front side of the rod, a few millimeters ahead of the char line
(Figure 1). All of the cigarettes in the test showed an area where smoke
emanates from the underside of the rod a few millimeters ahead of the char
(Figures 1 to 4), but the video image of the low sidestream cigarettes did
not always include a plume above the rod (Figure 2). During the taping, a
plume of smoke could always be seen: above these cigarettes by visual
inspection. Where the video image shows no plume, the smoke. had coalesced to
form the plume at a point above and outside of the imaging area of the
camera. The visible smoke from the low sidestream cigarettes was
considerably less than that produced by the Marlboro cigarettes.

The cigarettes with the single wrapper of heavy-weight paper showed
bursts of smoke coming from the rows of perforations along the unburnt
portion of the rod, with sometimes startling: visual displays (Figures 3 & 4).
Depending on the orientation of the holes with respect to the camera, there
was a series of small plumes sometimes from the underside, sometimes from the
top, and occasionally they were visible on the front surface of the rod.

9092T9S202%