- PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

 

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017

Thomas J. Collamore pate:: April 21, 1995
James C. Botticelli
Alan Blum

It is somewhat difficult to give you anything definitive that Blum may
bring up at the shareholders meeting, but I'l attempt a stab.

He's rather mercurial in his style, so he really can come up with
anything. In the past, he has not been as combative as some of the
other anti's (certainly not like the Connolly's, Slade's et al), and tries to
come across as a "good" guy, often complimenting PM on its hospitality
in Richmond, etc. I find him more an irritant, attempting to
embarrass us, than, say, the institutional shareholders, who are
pushing for dramatic change. This will be his seventh annual meeting.

He founded the group Doctors Ought to Care (DOC). It's a national
physicians’ anti-tobacco group that is especially fond of protesting
tobacco-sponsored sporting groups. It targeted Virginia Slims
Tournament one year, calling it Emphysema Slims. DOC has been
trying to bring in religious allies to its cause.

Blum likes to twist or exaggerate things. He has accused us of
suborning the minority community. For example, he said the reason
Blacks rarely criticized the tobacco industry on smoking and health
issues was because we were “buying them off’ with our charitable
contributions. Blum was also the person who, just before the 1992
Republican Convention, released our internal memoranda regarding
political contributions. At the time he tried to embarrass us by saying
that we are "buying" politicians with our PAC support and that Craig,
as Convention Chairman, is further evidence of how we get to
politicians. If we support a youth organization, he'll say our ulterior
motive is really to get kids to smoke, or, if we sponsor a promotion,
he'll say we are really trying to circumvent restrictions on TV
advertising.

As far as I can recall, he has never put forward a shareholder
resolution, but has seconded or commented on many others. We
reviewed the transcripts of the past several years' annual meetings,
and he has seconded or commented on the following resolutions -
economic conversion (1994), cigarette advertising (1993), global
warning labels (1993/91), marketing of Miller beer (1992/91),
cigarettes and minors (1990). This year, I suspect he may be
interested in Proposal 2 - ETS; maybe 3, primarily because it attempts
to get us out of the tobacco business; and 5, economic conversion,
since he seconded last year.

CS POL

~
i

S9L0b