PI;_ Geoffrey L. Greene
MCP-1

1. We are currently examining the mechanism of ER-mediated suppression of MCP-1 mRNA levels.
Although the 5’ flanking region of the MCP-1 gene does not contain an obvious estrogen response
element (ERE), the actinomycin D results appear to rule out alteration of MCP-1 mRNA stability by
ER. Therefore, we will pursue a detailed characterization of the MCP-1 promoter, beginning with a
nuclear run-on assay to confirm transcriptional regulation, followed by a detailed dissection of the
promoter and 5’ flanking region by deletion analysis, reporter transfection assay, electrophoretic
mobility shift assay, and/or footprinting. Specifically, we will determine whether a CAT or
Luciferase reporter construct containing the 5’ upstream sequence of the MCP-1 gene is regulated by
E2/TNF-a, similar to the endogenous gene.

2. In order to characterize the role of ER and MCP-1 in the vasculature, we will analyze the
expression of MCP-1 mRNA in vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cell lines (A7R5, a rat
vascular smooth muscle cell, and HUVEC cells derived from human umbilical cord endothelium) that
are known to be estrogen-responsive. MCP-1 expression will be characterized by northern blot,
insitu hybridization, and/or immunocytochemistry, as well as a functional analysis to determine the
effects of E2/TNF-o and other cytokines on capillary vessel formation in cultured HUVEC cells.

3. The relationship between ER and MCP-1 in vivo will be further explored by utilizing in situ
hybridization and/or northern blot analysis of ER and MCP-1 probes with tissue from human breast
tumors and atherosclerotic specimens. MCP-1 protein levels will be analyzed as well by
immunocytochemistry in all cell lines and tissues studied. Importantly, we will determine whether
there is any correlation between MCP-1 and ER levels in different tumors. We have all necessary
MCP-1 and ER antibodies and cDNA probes, as well as ER expression plasmids and various
reporter plasmids.

MNI1

1. The mechanism of ER mediated stimulation of MN1 in MCF-7 cells will be characterized by the
nuclear run-on assay. If this proves to be a transcriptional effect, as expected from the
cycloheximide data, the 5’ flanking region of the MN1 gene will be cloned and analyzed for ER-
dependent transcriptional activity. This will be accomplished by deletion analysis, reporter
transfection assay, electrophoretic mobility shift assay and/or footprinting, similar to the approach
described above for MCP-1, Because MN1 is likely to be estrogen regulated in normal epithelial
mammary tissue, we will study its regulation by estrogens in primary cultures and/or established cell
lines of normal human mammary epithelium and hyperplasia (eg. MCF-10 cells), co-transfected, if
necessary, with human ER.

Other cDNA clones identified by RNA differential display

1. Four additional cDNA clones identified in the original RNA differential display screen have not
yet been characterized. These products will be sequenced and used to probe Northern blots in order
to further characterize their expression. If these clones represent novel gene products, the full length
cDNA will be obtained from a cDNA library and further characterization will proceed according to
the methods used for MCP-1 and MN1.

Literature Cited

1. P. Liang, A. B. Pardee, Science 257, 967-971 (1992).

2. P. Liang, L. Averboukh, K. Keyomarsi, R. Sager, A. B. Pardec, Cancer Res. 52, 6966-6968
(1992).

R. H. Lekanne Deprez, et al., Oncogene 10, 1521-1528 (1995).

. A. Buijs, et al., Oncogene 10, 1511-1519 (1995).

a uo