PI: Geoffrey L. Greene

TITLE: Identification And Characterization of Genes that Differentially Regulate
Proliferation in Response to Estrogen Agonists and Antagonists

Abstract:

The overall goal of this investigation is to elucidate the molecular mechamisms by which estrogens
and estrogen antagonists differentially regulate gene expression and proliferation in hormone
dependent tissues and cancers. To address this problem, the hormone responsive MCF-7 human
breast cancer cell line will be used to identify differential changes in gene expression that occur in
response to acute treatment with estrogens and estrogen antagonists. Identified genes will be
sequenced and characterized in estrogen-sensitive and insensitive breast cancer cell lines and in two
vascular cell lines.

Specific_Aims

1. To identify specific mRNA species from MCF-7K1 breast cancer cells whose expression is
differentially modulated by estradiol (E2), 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OH-T, a partial hormone
antagonist), or ICI 182,780 (ICI, a complete hormone antagonist). Total cellular RNA will be
obtained from MCF-7K1 cells cultured in the presence or absence of thesc ligands and analyzed by
the technique of differential RNA display. This technique permits rapid visualization and comparison
of gene expression in target cells following acute treatment with estrogen agonists and antagonists.

2. To clone, identify, and characterize target genes visualized by the differential display technique.
An MCF-7K1 cDNA library will be generated and used to isolate cDNA clones of the differentially
regulated genes. Individual clones will be chosen for further study. If novel genes are identified, the
DNA sequence and temporal expression of selected candidates in response to agonist vs. antagonists
will be determined. If known genes are identified, the mechanism of regulation by estrogen receptor
and hormone agonist and antagonists will be addressed in several breast cancer cells, vascular
smooth muscle cells, and human umbilical vein endothelial cells of variable sensitivity to estrogens.

Preliminary Studies and Results

RNA differential display was performed according to the method of Liang and Pardee (1, 2).
Briefly, total cellular RNA was isolated from MCF-7 cells cultured in the presence of 50 ug/ml
cycloheximide (CHX) or 50 ng/ml TNF-a +/- 10 nM E2, 100 nM OH-T, or 100 nM ICL RNA
differential display identified six putative target genes and two of these were chosen for further
characterization. The first gene was identified as monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1).

Expression of MCP-1 mRNA by MCF-7 Cells

Unstimulated MCF-7 human breast cancer cells do not express detectable levels of MCP-1 mRNA
when measured by Northern blot or ribonuclease protection assay. Treatment with either CHX or
TNF-a, a known inducer of MCP-1 expression, for 0.5-2 hours resulted in a significant increase in
steady state levels of MCP-1 mRNA. Co-stimulation of cells with CHX or TNF-a and 10 nM E2
suppressed steady state levels of MCP-1 mRNA. Under these conditions, E2-mediated suppression
of MCP-1 mRNA was maximal by 1-4 hours (70% suppression). Two additional estrogens, estriol
and DES, also mediated suppression of MCP-1 mRNA levels whereas the synthetic progesterone
receptor agonist, ORG 2058, had no effect. Incubation of the cells with OH-T did not suppress
MCP-1 mRNA accumulation and co-administration of 10 nM E2 and 2 uM OH-T or ICT abrogated
the suppressive E2 effect. OH-T and ICI function as antagonisis of E2 action in the breast.
Treatment of cells with actinomycin D did not alter the mRNA stability profile, which suggests that
ER modulates MCP-1 mRNA expression at the transcriptional level. A synergistic down regulation
of ER mRNA by TNF-a and E2 was also observed.

Expression of MCP-1 mRNA in Other Cell Lines