PI: Geoffrey L. Greene

Expression of MCP-1 mRNA was characterized in two additional human breast cancer cell lines
(T47D and AU565). T47D cells express ER mRNA, although at much lower levels than MCF-7
cells, whereas the AU565 cell line does not express ER. Again, unstimulated cells did not express
detectable levels of MCP-1 mRNA. Treatment with CHX or TNF-o stimulated MCP-1 mRNA
expression in both cell lines. However MCP-1 mRNA was suppressed by E2 only in T47D cells
(50% suppression). The lack of response in AU565 cells is consistent with the absence of ER.

Regulation of Additional genes by ER

The original RNA differential display screen yielded several differentially regulated cDNA species
including one (clone E3A1) whose expression was strongly induced in MCF-7 cells by 10 nM E2.
Unstimulated MCF-7 cells do not express E3A1 mRNA, and the message is induced within two hour
of stimulation with E2. This 711 base pair cDNA clone was sequenced and used to probe a multiple
tissue Northern blot. The probe hybridized to a single 8 kb mRNA transcript expressed in the
prostate, testis, ovary, small intestine, colon, peripheral blood leukocytes, and thymus. This partial
cDNA is 98% identical to sequence from the 3’ end of the MN/ gene (3,4). An MNI cDNA probe
hybridizes to an mRNA species with the same molecular weight as the E3A1 cDNA probe (3)
Thus, we have isolated the same gene and found it to be regulated by estradiol in MCF-7 cells.

Significance

A major objective of our investigations is to determine the molecular mechanisms by which estrogens
and estrogen antagonists differentially regulate proliferation and gene expression in hormone
responsive tissues and cancers. The estrogen receptor (ER), which mediates most or all of these
activities, is a member of a large family of intracellular ligand-activatcd transcription factors that bind
to specific DNA hormone response elements (HREs) located in or near regulated genes. The result of
this interaction is transcriptional enhancement or repression, depending on the composition and
placement of the HRE as well as the cellular context of the responsive gene. Despite a wealth of
information about the structure and composition of the estrogen receptor and its functional domains,
little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which estrogens and their antagonists control
proliferation in both normal and transformed cells and tissues. The rationale underlying this proposal
is that information about the differential regulation of genes by estrogen agonists and antagonists will
lead to a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms that are responsible for hormonal control
of cell proliferation.

The current results suggest that the method of RNA differential display is able to identify genes that
are both induced and suppressed by estrogens in breast cancer cells and other tissues. The two genes
identified and characterized thus far have not previously been shown to be regulated by estradiol.
MCP-1, which is down regulated by estradiol, is a known cytokine produced by many cell types in
response to mitogenic stimulation. This gene is selectively down regulated in MCF7 cells by
estradiol but not by OH-T and ICI. Monocytes are frequently found in close association with tumors
and are postulated to play an active role in the local tumor environment. Therefore, the specific
modulation of a monocyte chemoattractant could be a significant component of tumor biology. The
second transcript, MN-1, which is specifically induced in MCF-7 cells by E2 and not by OH-T or
ICI, represents a gene that is involved in a balanced translocation (4:22) in a meningioma (3), and
was also found as a fusion product with the TEL gene (4), a member of the ETS family of
transcription factors, in an acute myeloid leukemia. Becausc the MN1 gene appears to be
transcriptionally induced by estrogens in MCF-7 cells, it may also be regulated by estrogens in
normal mammary tissue. Thus, the RNA display technique is likely to reveal novel mechanistic
aspects of the differential regulation of proliferation and other specific cellular responses by estrogens
and their antagonists. Such data should also prove useful for thc treatment of breast cancer,
osteoporosis, and heart disease in women.

Proposed_studies