oie

 

INTEROFFICE MEMORARDUY
SUBJECT: INVENTION DISCLOSURE DATE: November 26, 1984

TO: Mr. G. M. Myers FROM: James L-. Resce

Extended Puff Count, Lower CO Delivery And Improved Conductive
Heat Transfer In TGA Models Using A Macrocapsule With Thermally

Conductive Aluminum “Fingers”

Summary

The conduction--of heat from the burning fuel source in a TGA
model back to the substrate (and tobacco) via an aluminun
macrocapsule can be improved with the use of aluminum “fingers”
which extend out from the macrocapsule and surround the fuel
source. These fingers are actually part of the capsule but extend
the length of the fuel source thus providing a ready path for the
conduction of heat. Furthermore, this improved heat transfer
serves to sink out more heat from the burning fuel thus lowering
its combustion temperature. The result is two-fold: (1) the rate
of carbon gasification is reduced and as a result the fuel is
consumed at a slower rate, and (2) the production of CO via
carbonaceous reduction of CO, is decreased because of the lower
temperature maintained in the burning coal.

Background

Conductive heat transfer in a TGA model from a burning fuel
source back to the substrate occurs chiefly through the aluminum
macrocapsule. The fuel source is generally inserted only 1 or 2
mm inside the macrocapsule. The heat must travel from the burning
fire cone, down the unburnt fuel rod and then across the 1 to 2 mm
interface to the capsule. By improving the efficiency of this
conductive heat transfer, more heat can be delivered to the
substrate, sooner, thus permitting earlier flavor and/or aerosol
delivery. The approach taken in this invention is to improve the
interface between fuel source and macrocapsule. In this regard, a
new type of macrocapsule is used which contains a number of
finger-like protrusions which extend the length of the fuel
source. The heat is transferred not only at the interface where
the fuel source is inserted into the capsule but also along these

92% $6595