Tobacco Company

Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102
919-741-5000

May 13, 1992
Allan C. Collins, Ph.D.
Professor of Pharmacology
Institute for Behavioral Genetics
University of Colorado at Boulder
Campus Box 447
Boulder, CO 80309

Dear Al,

We are looking forward to the upcoming 1992 RJRT Conference on Sponsored
Nicotine Research and hope that you are, as well. This letter is to inform
you of the latest developments regarding the Conference and to solicit
additional information from you that will help us do the best job that we
can.

Your usual contact should already have discussed travel expenses with you.
Please make sure that you have a clear understanding on this point, to save
difficulty later.

Because we expect that proprietary information may be discussed during the
sessions, or in private conversations outside the plenary sessions, we
will, as usual, ask you to sign a confidentiality agreement covering the
Conference on the first day.

If you have any special equipment needs such as videocassette players,
movie projectors, overhead or slide projectors, and so on, or suggestions
for set-up, please let us know exactly what your needs are as soon as
possible.

Lunches, and light breakfast snacks will be served here at our facility
each day. There will also be a dinner on the evening of Thursday, May 21st
at the Stouffer Winston Plaza Hotel. Other meals will be at your
discretion.

Hotel reservations have been made for you at the Stouffer Winston Plaza
Hotel. If you have changes in your current schedule, please let us know.

We have arranged transportation with the Blue Bird Cab Company to and from
Conference venues and the hotel. Transportation arrangements from Winston-
Salem to the airport on your departure can be made, however, you will have
to let us know your confirmed return flight schedule. You should plan to
arrange transportation from the airport to the hotel yourself.

Enclosed with this letter is the Conference schedule.

f9CG 66LOG

‘“‘We work for smokers.’