Tehila Umiel, Ph.D.

FF Principal Investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middle):

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key:personnel and consultans and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

 

NAME POSITION TITLE

Karen Ehrenman Research Associate

 

YEAR

EDUCATION (Begiin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training)
CONFERR3ED

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION FIELD OF STUDY

 

 

             
    

St. Lawrence University, New York 1976 Biology

St. Peters Medical Center, New Jersey 1979 ASCP

Wagner College, Staten Island 1982 Bacteriology

Albany Medical College 1989 Microbiology & Immunology

    
  

RESEARCH AND /OR PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list in chronological order previous employment, experience, and honors. Key
personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key personnel typically will
include ail individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but irj some projects will include individuals at the masters or baccalaureate level provided they contribute
in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the prdject. Include present membership on any Federal Government public advisory committee. List, in
chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete references to all: publications during the past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this
application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES. i

Professional Experience:

1993 - present Research Associate, Gedars-Sinai Medical Center
Los Angeles

1992-1993 - Post Doctoral Fellow, Department of Microbiology and Imunology
Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
1990-1991 - Post Doctoral Fellow,’ Department of Medical Genetics
University of Washington
1989-1990 - Post Doctoral Fellow in Basic Sciences
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington
1983-1989 - Graduate Research Assistant, Wadsworth Center for Laboratories and
Research, Albany, New York
1982 - Medical technologist, Overlook Hospital, New Jersey
1991-1982 - Medical technologist at St. Clares Hospital, Denville, New Jersey
1980-1981 - Medical technologist, St. Barnabas Hospital
Department of Chemistry, Livingston, New Jersey
1979-1980 - Medical technologist, Medical Laboratory, New Jersey
Publications:

Umiel, T., Ehrenman, K., Rayner, S., Harrigan, M., Altman, A., Tary-Lehmann, M., Lehman,
P., and Fischel-Ghodsian, N. Generation of T-cell leukemia (CEM) clones that resist
activation-induced cell death, but not anti-Fas induced apoptosis. ( submitted)

Ehrenman, K., Long, L., Wagner, BJ., and Brewer, G. Characterization of cDNAs encoding
murine AU-rich element RNA-binding protein AUF-l. Gene1994, in press.