Aword to nonsmokers

(about working together)

Wherever you work — even if you're a
billboard painter — you work with
smokers,and always have.

There's nothing remarkable about that.
Forty percent of the people around you are
smokers, and 60% are nonsmokers. Still, we
work, live, and enjoy ourselves together.

Lately, however, we've all become
super-sensitive to each other and to each
other’s privileges and obligations. And that’s
not a bad thing.

We agree on many things. There are
places (crowded elevators, to take the
simplest example) where smoking is not
appropriate. In closed and private places,
the ancient courtesy of “Do you mind if I
smoke?” is still the best rule. Smokers, we
believe, have become more generally
conscious of that courtesy. The occasional
careless smoker, waving a lighted cigarette
or cigar, should, in our opinion, be as quickly
reminded of others’ preferences by a
thoughtful smoker as by a nonsmoker.

Nevertheless there are some people—
anti-smokers rather than nonsmokers — who
will never be satisfied with our sensible
accommodations to each other. They don’t

want us to work together at all. Instead they5 ==

want to segfegate us by law — literally to

 

build walls between us -—- at considerable
expense to both smokers and nonsmokers —
in places where we work, shop, eat or just go
to amuse ourselves.

We know that such anti-smokers do not
represent the great majority of nonsmokers.
And the anti-smokers know it, too. But
there is a danger that others will think they
do.

“When I went to the legislature,” says
one anti-smoking lobbyist, “they thought I
had about 10,000 people behind me. That
was a laugh. It was just me. I had the law
passed by myself”

If it is a “laugh” for the anti-smoker, it
is no joke for the rest of us for we must all,
smokers and nonsmokers alike, pay the cost
of such foolish laws. All of us are losers when
any one of us is denied freedom of choice.

We don’t think that, over the long run,
that’s going to happen. We think that, like
our billboard painters, we'll go on working
together until we get the job done.

THE TOBACCO INSTITUTE

1776 K St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Freedom of choice
is the best choice, *