1:20 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592
Jim Kordenbrock DATE: May 17, 1994

Michelle Salzman / Rick Wilhelm

SUBJECT: RX Management Materials -- Agency Development Brief.

The following outlines the information that is to be incorporated into the Management
Materials for Project RX.

OVERVIEW

As the penny profit generated from sales of RX is less than those realized from the sale of
full margin brands and, in some instances, deep discount brands, the focus of the “sell story"
for RX will be one based on consumer demand for the product. In essence, consumer
demand for RX will be so strong that retailers not carrying the product will be ata
competitive disadvantage. To support this argument, key learnings from the RX Ad-pack
research (such as purchase interest), as well as a few "memorable" consumer quotes from
focus groups and onc-on-oncs, will be incorporated into the sales materials.

The actual sell in brochure should be a printed 4 page, 4 color piece that contains a pocket for
introductory. allowance worksheets, pricing worksheets P.O.S. menu items etc.

4 R BROCHURE

The following details the clements which are to be included on the sales brochure in priority
order:

1) RX Proposition

First and foremost, retailers must he educated as simply as possible as to what RX
is all about. They musi clearly understand it's positioning as every bit a Marlboro that
because its shorter costs less.

While retail pricing is obviously a critical element to the success of RX, the brand's
desired absolute rctailpricing of RX should not be printed on the actual 4 color brochure.
Instead, suggested retil pricing will be handled on a scparate worksheet insert so that
Sales reps. can adjust pricing on un account by account basis (sec example)

2) Sell Story:
Involving and straight-forward copy that “sells” the retail trade on the strong consumer

demand RX will generate and how important itis that he/she carry the product is the
foundation of ths sites sheers and must be boldly communicated.

2024072051