rf
O3TRGK6OBR
weg Peg be

  
 
   
    
  
 
  

 

, PROJECT NUMBER: 1307

_ PROJECT TITLE: Reconstituted Tobacco Develcoment
PROJECT LEADER: R. G. Uhl

PERSO COVERED: - October, 1987

   

  

75

 

PROPERTIES |

in

 

  

 

SHE
rT 285 us 2 eee Tee es ae . . . . oe ,

. Objective: “Improve the physical characteristics and blend
_ber formance of reconstituted sheet materials. D

  
  

      

 
 
  

: Results: es ae a De
. Bere Et OME RST I co ek Ry
" 1. ART Project = Spent stems (unwashed bright) from the ART pilot

plant were used to replace 35% of the bright stems in pilot RL
-feedstock. Subjective screening of handmade 23% cigarettes og:
‘Showed some detectable subjective differences versus controls, |
"particularly with 150B sheet. -Machine-made Marlboro blends
- oa: WILL be used for more extensive evaluation. Additional pilot
“ . gheets arene ae made from other ART stem lots (same stem tyoe)
to determine subjective consistency. 26.200 eae

°
ee Ales

® 3

x

oo : _ In order to determine whether there is a subjective impact of
mye ART stems attributable to monopotassium citrate, pilot RU was a
mo made iin TC, 150B and! Modified 1508 formulations with citrate .
Ly added to the size. Citrate levels simulated replacing 1/3, 2/3

and all of. the bright stems in normal RL feedstcck with ART

stems. Handmade cigarettes were submitted for subjective

screening. .

The effect of citrate on RL fiber processing was evaluated ty
adding! manopotassium citrate to process liquors (S8w, RW) and
tiber chests. Both test and control were targeted at 17%
baseweb HWS to approximate Park 500. Citrate to HWS ratios
were maintained at am elevated level, equivalent to reglacing
all bright stems iim the feedstock with ART stems. There wa5-a
slight increase in sheet adhesion to the Yankee Dryer. Sheet
tensile strength was somewhat lower, but additional testing
willl be required to. determine statistical signiticance. There
were mo measurable differences in paper machine muisture
protile, tines retention or drainage rates. The system
developed several leaks at threaded tittings, gaskets and ro at ¢)
seals. This is attributes to a Cleaning action on sediments
due to the slight acidity and considerable Chelating oracerties
Of ltrate,

None of the oillot RL sheets Made using AG’ Gitet Glant scent

stem. or Raving added MUNODOTaAsSSTum citrate tiave shown the
Ubbearance of surtace salts Curing sheer equilibration. This
hos Seen noted unty with sheets made trom the Bremene$ otems.

YP. Hamectants = The second round of POL recurs ON Maimer & gine
PeUrr stigement Obends fusing Sheet materials with FedJuced
heamer tants) again Showed euulvalence to control. Plans are
beteg formulated for a factory olend evaluation,

Glycterin=etree blend, ufilictng orodurtion sheet mae tal sagt ee,
PG a fhe only humectant were Complefed im Semiwarks,
Sublect ive results chow ne S'YgAV teat git ference yersus

PGZgtycertnetree pflar Re “Peery and RB handsneets, were Mandy
ae Gases tag COMB EES BOD! Daraben and several levels. et - G

COM rats,