Cigarette Smok dng at nd Choleste
Atherosele

rosis of Rabbits

Edwin R. Fisher, MD; Mark Wholey, MD; Robert Shoemaker, MS

Exposure to smoks from one cigaretta
per cay In’a simulated smoking machine
for 11 10 13 months failed to quantitatively
or qualitatively affect atherosclerosis of
aorta and exlramural as well as intramural
coronary arerias, visceral lesions, or se
rum lipids of cholesterol-fed rabbits. Sim-
arly, no differences In these parameters
were observed in normocholesterolemic
rabbits subjected to “smoking” as com-
pared to appropriate controls. Smoking
also tailed to lniluence the appearance of

I Vi epidemiological studies have

disclosed an association be-
tween cigarette smoking (CS) and
morbidity and mortality from arte-
riosclerotic heart disease (ASHD).
This relationship appears less con-
vincing than that relating CS to res-
piratory diseases and a causal role
f CS to ASHD has not been con-
vincingly demonstrated. Results of
pharmacologic investigations*'* con-
cerning the effect of CS or nicotine,
the latter regarded as the cardio
vascular effector of CS,'*"* on the car-
diovascular system have been con-

 

Accepted for pudlicution May 8, 1974.

From the departments of pathology (Dr.
Fisher and Mr. Shoemaker) and radiology (Dr.
wholey), Shadyside Hospital and the University
of Pittsburgh (Drs. Pisher and Wholey), Pitts-
burgh.

Reprint requests to Institute of Pathology,
Shadyside Hospital, 5239 Centre Ave, Pitts-
burgh, PA 152%2 (Dr. Pisher).

$18 Arch Pathol/Vol 98, Dec 1974

coronary angiograms in rabbits of the
various groups studied.

Lungs from only one rabbit subjected to
clearette smoking exhibited rare foci of
mild atypia of mucosal epithelium of ma-
Jor bronchi. Although these findings ere
not necessatily applicable to those the
might occur In man, nevertheless, they
prevoke the necd for further Inquiry re-
gerding the causal rola of cigarette smok-
Ing In the davelopment of atherosclerotic
heart disease in man.

flicting and indeed in some instances
contradictory to the view relating CS
to ASHD. In a previous study per-
formed in our laboratory’ it was ob-
served that the daily administration
of nicotine for three months failed to
quantitatively or qualitatively affect
atherosclerosis of the aorta, extra-
mural and intramural branches of the
coronary arteries, visceral lesions, or
serum lipids in normotensive or hy-
pertensive rabbits with and without a
dietary supplement of cholesterol.
The dose of nicotine utilized was
equivalent to that amount absorbed
by man smoking approximately 35
cigarettes per day.

The purpose of the present study
was to investigate the pathologic ef-
fects of “cigarette smoking” on the
cardiovascular end other tissues in
rabbits as revealed by coronary angi-
ography and appropriate histulosic
techniques. Such studies, as well as

rol
er

C068 ghO00S

those of serum lipids, were performed
in untreated rabbits and those sub-
jected to hypercholesterulemia or in-
duced atheroscicrosis.

Materials and Methods

Forty-two adult male and female albino
rebbits, that initially weighed between 1.6
ané 2.0 kg, survived or satisfied the re-
Quirements of the experiment. Group J
consisted of ten animals that. were sub-
jected to CS of one cigarette daily for six
days per week. Estimated on a weight
basis one cigarette per day in a rabbit Is
equivalent to smoking 30 cigarettes per
day in man. They were maintained on 2
standard laboratory ration and water ad
lib. Group 2 consisted of a similar number

that received the standard ration tu which
2% cholesterol was added. These animals
were placed within the smoking chamber
for an equivalent time to those in group ]
except they were not exposed to CS. There
were 12 animals in group 3 that were sub-
jected to CS as those in group J. These.
Were maintained on the rztion containing
cholesterol. Ten rabbits of rroup 4 received
the regular ration without cholestcral.
These were placed within the smoking
chamber hut as with those in group 2 were
not exposed to CS.

All animals were killed after 11 to 19
months of CS and/or cholesterol adminis-
tration or the Sham CS procedure.

A smoke exposure machine (manufac-
tured by Process and Inztrumeats Corp,
under contract by the Council for Tobacce
Research, USA, Inc) was utilized to exporw
the rabbits to tobacco sinoke under condi-
tiens comparable to those of human smoxc

Cigrrette Smoking and Atherosclerosis/Fisher ct z