2 Word Trape CenTer
Sure 87-14
New York, New York 10048
(212) 321-4587

Peter P. FARRELL
Deputy Commissioner

Mr. Robert P. Andree
East Hill CITGO

301 Pinetree Road
Ithaca, New York 14850

” Re: Cigarette Marketing Standards Act (CMSA)

Dear Mr, Andree:

 

State oF New Yors,
DEPARTMENT OF TAXATION AND Finance
Orrice oF TAX ENFORCEMENT

July 5, 2000

W A Harriman Campus
Avpany, NY 12227
(518) 457-9692

You have contacted us in regard to the legality of certain cigarette manufacturers’ promotions
under the Cigarette Marketing Standards Act (CMSA). This letter is in response to that inquiry.

As you are aware, the Department issued TSB-M-00 (2)M on March 3, 2000 stating that
certain manufacturers’ promotional programs known as “buy-downs” and “master-type” programs
are prohibited under CMSA. Please reference that memorandum for details. It is the Department’s
view that any change with regard to “buy-downs” and “master-type” programs would require
statutory change by the Legislature.

Pursuant to longstanding interpretations of CMSA, the industry has offered other types of

i

promotional programs, including price reductions and trade discounts provided for on the
manufacturer’s invoice and “buy one, get one free” (or buy some, get some free) promotions, These
programs continue to be allowed under CMSA, provided (1) the trade discount or price reduction
{including any price reduction duc to free product) is reflected on the manufacturer’ s invoice; (2) all
cigarette tax agents selling the manufacturer’s brands in New-York State are allowed to participate
in the promotion; and (3) the promotion is not limited to specified retail dealers (other than for
purposes of proportional allocation of available supply of promotional product). The industry has
also offered manufacturer's coupons. These are allowable under CMSA, provided that the coupon
is either published in a newspaper or magazine of general circulation, or mailed directly to the

consumer by the manufacturer.

58ZL esezs