Singleton, John W.

From: Payne, Maura

Sent: Tuesday, December 01, 1998 12:23 PM
To: Singleton, John W.; Walker, Nat
Subject: RE: Crist interview

presume you've shared all this with chuck and dan? how about tommy?

eres Original Message-----

From: Singleton, John W.

Sent: Tuesday, December 01, 1998 11:24 AM
To: Payne, Maura; Walker, Nat

Subject: FW: Crist interview

OK, Nat, we have been fairly warned; we can be present, but must keep our gags firmly in place.

~--Original Message-----
From: swhite@w-s-journal.com {SMTP -swhite@w-s journal com)

Sent: Tuesday, December 01, 1998 11:09 AM
To: Singleton, John W.
Subject: Re: Crist interview

John,

Just wanted to let you know | have no problem with Nat sitting in
on tomorrow's meeting with Paul Crist as long as it's understood that
| am there to interview Paul and not RJR's PR department.

As far as any specific documents, | think | mentioned some in my
lengthy e-mail to you back on Nov. 16.

Issues we are interested in discussing include: the purging of
documents. We have at least three strong indications that this has
been done to protect the company legaly.

One Indication is through a Dec. 12, 1869 memo from Murray Senkus
to Max Crohn. Senkus was responding to Crohn regarding a meeting they
had where Crohn asked how reports that could later prove damaging to
the company might be invalidated. (Bates no: 0028 4499

Another document we'd like to get some answers on is the May 1,
1972 memo from Fred Panzer to Horace Kornegay that talks about how the
industry has employed a single strategy over the past 20 years to
defend itself on three fronts: cigation, politics and public
opinion. (Bates no. T] 001-0999)

The memo goes on to say: "While the strategy was brilliantly
conceived and executed over the years helping us win important
batties, it is only fair to say that it is not - nor was it intended
to be - a vehicle for victory. On the contrary, it has always been a
holding strategy, consisting of creating doubt about the health charge
without actually denying it..."

Though this is a memo from the Tobacco Institute, RJR should ba
aware of it since the individual tobacco companies directed the
information that came from the institute.

{ am also attaching a copy of a Oct. 13 letter | sent to Paul about
other issues and documents | want to talk to him about. | hope this

elps.

Oct. 13, 1998

Paul G. Crist

‘Attorney,

Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue
Northpoint, 901 Lakeside Ave.
Cleveland, OH 44114

Mr. Crist,
Once again | wanted to thank you for taking time out of your busy

ZELE LEees

1