734 v-fps induced Intracellular Signals

the construction of pZIP M17, pZIPneoSvVi(xX), had no
etfect on v-Fps-induced Egr-1 promoter activation (Fig.
4b). Thus. expression of the M17 HiaRas mutant inhibits
signals induced by v-F ps leading to the activation of the
Epgr-1 promoter ;

We next examined the effect of the M17-inhibitory
HaRas mutant on v-Raf-induced Egr-1 promoter activa-
tion. Cotransfection of the M1? HaRas mutant with
p3611, which expresses v-Raf. had no effect upon v-Raf-
induced Egr-? promoter activation (Fig. 4c) This imphes
that the effect of the M17 HaRas mutant 1s not a nonspe-
cic effect upon the Egr-1 promoter and that tiaRas
medsated v-Fps-induced signal(s) that lead to Egr-1 pro-
moter activation, The data also demonstrate that 1f Raf-1
18 a8 COMponent in v-Fps-induced promoter activation, it
functions downstream from or independently of HaRas.

A Dominant Negative Mutant of Rai- 1 Blocks Both v-
Fps- and v-Ras-induced Egr-1 Promoter Activation. If
Raf-1 functions downstream from HiaRas in v-Fps-in-
duced Egr-1 expression. then blocking Raf-1 function
would be expected to block both v-Fps- and v-HaRas-
induced Egr-1 promoter activation. To block Raf-1
expression, we used a recently charactenzed inhibitory
mutant of Raf-1 that was shown to mbhibst serum. and
phorbol ester-induced DONA synthesis (15) and v-Sre-
moduced Epr-1 expression (38) This mutant contains a
tryptophan substituted for leucine in the ATP binding
site and results in a kingse-defective Raf. protein that
functions as a dominant negatwe mutant (15). p301-1
expresses the kinase-defective mutant of Raf-1 under the
control of the cytomegalovirus early promoter (Fig. 5a).
Cotransfectton of 9301-1 with plV2 3 (v-Fps) into Nik
373 cells blocked v- Fps-induced-inducegd Egr-1 promoter
activabon (Fig. $b) When pv-HaRas was cotransfected
in cells with p301-1, a similar decrease in CAT activity
was observed (Fig. 56). To demonstrate that the effect of
the Raf-1 mutant was not blocking Egr-1 promoter act.
vation, we examined the effect of this mutant on Egr-1
promoter activatton induced by the serine/threonine ki-
nase v-Mos (39). 9301-1 had no effect on CAT gene
eapression induced by cotransfection of pEgr-1 P1 2 with
PHT25. which eapresses v-Mos (39). Thus, the effect of
the inhibitory Raf.1 mutant on v-Fps- and v-HaRas-in-
duced Egr-? promoter activation 1s not a nonspecific
effect of the Ral-1 mutant. These data suggest a Raf-1
requirement for both v-Fps and v-HaRas to induce Egr-i
promoter activation

Discussion

In thes report, we have shown that the protein-tyrosine
kinase activity of v-Fps can induce the transcriptional
activation of the Egr-1 gene, which encodes a mitogen-
responsive transcription factor, The induction of Egr-1 by
v-Fps was insensitive to depleting cells of PKC Activation
of the Egr-? promoter by v-Fps in transient expression
aS5aV$ Was sensitive to inhibitory mutants for both HaRas
and Raf-1) v-HaRas-induced Egr-1 promoter activation
was sensitive to the mhibitory Raf-1 mutant, whereas v-
Raf-1-induced Egr-1 promoter activation was unaffected
by the M17 HaRas mutant. We recently demonstrated
that the induction of the Egr-t promoter by v-Fps ts
dependent upon a group of closely packed serum re-
sponse elements (40). Consistent with the suggestion that
the v-Fps.induced activation of the Egr-1 promoter ts

PUBLICATIONS

dependent upon Rat-1. v-Raf lan activated form of Raf-
1) activated the Egr-1 promoter via the same serum
response elements (41). These data describe an intracel-
lular signal activated by v-F ps that results in the activation
of the Egr-1 promoter This signal is independent of PKC
and dependent upon both HaRas and Raf-1, where Rat-
1 functions downstream of HaRas.

We previously demonstrated that v-Fps activated a
PKC-dependent intracellular signal that resulted in the
induction of 9E3/CEF4 expression (6). Thus, the obser-
vahon reported here that v-F ps-induced Egr-1 expression
1s independent of PKC suggests that v-Fps is capable of
achivating both PKC-dependent and PKC-independent
intracellular signals. This 15 similar to the observation that
v-Sre also activates both PKC-dependent and PKC.-inde-
pendent intracellular signals (22). The activation of both
PKC-dependent and PKC-independent intracellular sig-
nals by protein-tyrosine kinase implies that a complex
set of signals may be activated that ultimately result in
the transformed phenotype.

Precise molecular details of FiaRas and Raf-1 involve-
ment in v-Fps-induced intracellular signals remain to be
determined: however. it was recently reported that the
G IPase-activating protein of HaRas, GAP (42), 1s phos-
phorylated on tyrosine in response to v-Fps (28). GAP
increases the rate of GTP hydrolysis on HaRas, which
down-regulates biaRas function (42). Thus, GAP could
be a target of v-Fps for controlling HiaRas actiwity, and
the control of HaRas activity could, in turn, contribute to
the conuol of Raf-1 tn the HaRas- and Raf-1-dependent
intracellular signal characterized here. In this regard, at 15
of interest that overexpression of GAP has been shown
to block transformation by v-Src (43) and HaRas (44)—
presumably by down-regulation of HaRas function. Thus.
if the v-Fps-induced phosphorylation of GAP down-reg-
ulates GAP activity, this would have the effect of sustain-
ing Or up-regulating ttaRas-mediated signals.

Activation of Raf-1 has been reported in response to
mitogenic stimulation of quiescent cells (26, 29, 30, 32).
Increased phosphorylation of Raf-1 is beheved to be
responsible foc actwating the kinase activity of Raf-1 (30,
45). Raf-1 phosphorylation takes place on serine, threo-
nine, and tyrosine residues (30). A nechanism for acti-
vation of Raf-1 by v-Fps has not been determined; how.
ever, it has been suggested that the protem-tyrosine
kinase, v-Sre, induces tyrosine phosphorylation on Raf-}
(30). Thus, induction of Raf-1 may mvolve input by
muluple kinases with specificity for both tyrosine and
serine/threonime. Since, v-tiaRas-induced Egr-1  pro-
moter activation was biocked by the dominant negatwe
Raf-1 mutant, HaRas may function to recruit a protein
kinase!s) that phosphorylates and activates Raf-1.

it was previously demonstrated that micromyected an-
trbodies raised against Ras blocked transformation-re.-
lated phenotypes induced by v-Fps but not by v-Raf (33,
46). Thus, the induction of Egr-1 by v-F ps may contribute
to the transformed phenotype induced by v-Fps. The
report that the tumor-suppressing Wilms’ tumor gene
product binds to the same DNA target sequences as the
Egr-1 gene product (11, 12) suggests the possibshty of a
role for Egr-1 in v-Fps-induced transformation. Thus. the
PKC-independent signaling pathway mediated by the
protooncogenes Haas and Rafl-1 may prove to be im.-
portant for transformation induced by v-Fps and perhaps
other transforming protein-tyrosine kinases.

012673