Vol 3, 731 737 Oclober 1992

 

 

 

Cache <TH

Cell Growth & Datlerennaton

The Induction of Egr-1 Expression by v-Fps Is via a

Protein Kinase C-independent Intracellular
Signal That Is Sequentially Dependent

upon HaRas and Raf-1'

Konstantina Alexandropoulos, Sajjad A. Qureshi,’
Joseph T. Bruder, Ulf Rapp, and David A. Foster?

1 SS
Insitute tor Biomolecular Suucture and Function and Department of
Biologic al Sciences. The Hunter College of The City Linwersily of New
Yok New York. New York 10021 (K A S$ AQ.DA Fj. and
Laboratory of Vital Carcinogenesis. NIHYNCI. Fredenck Cancer
Research and Development Center, Fredenck. Maryland
21702102717 T BLUR]

Abstract

Activating the protein-tyrosine kinase activity of v-Fps
leads to the rapid transcriptional activation of the Egr-1
gene, which encodes a mitogen-responsive
transcription factor. Activation of Egr-1 by v-Fps was
insensitive to protein kinase C depletion, suggesting
that a protein kinase C-independent signal activated by
v-Fps leads to the induction of Egr-1. Expression of v-
Fps in transient expression assays induced Egs-1
promoter activation. v-HaRas and v-Rai also atsivated
the Egr- 1 promoter: To characterize HaRas and Raf- 1
involvement in v-Fps-induced Egs-1 expression, we
used recently characterized dominant negative mutants
of HaRas and Raf-1. v-Fps-induced Egr-1 promoter
activation was inhibited by the dominant negative
mutants of both HaRas and Raf-1. v-HaRas-induced
Egr-1 promoter activation was blocked by the negative
Raf-1 mutant; however, v-Raf-1-induced Egr-1
promoter activation was unaffected by the inhibitory
HaRas mutant. These data suggest that v-Fps activates a
protein kinase C-independent intracellular signaling
pathway that is dependent on both HaRas and Raf-1,
where Rai-1 functions downstream of HaRas.

Introduction

Fuyinann sarcoma virus expresses a 130-kilodalton pro-
tein that #5 a tusion of the viral Gag and cellular fps genes
(1). Fusion of viral Gag gene sequences to the cellular
Fps gene constitutively activates the protein-tyrosine ki.
nase actvity of cellular Fps (2). Constatutively activated

Recened 5/1/92

Ths inveshgahon was supported by prants trom the NIH IC Aab6. ”-
The Protessanal Stall Congress ob the Caly Unnersiy of New York
(661151 and the Council tor Tobace o Reseateh (3075) ta AF and
3 Research Centers in Minordy Inshtunons award trom the Onesaon oa
Research Resources NI IRRO) 3037-031 to Hunter College KOA wae
supponed m pat! by a scholanship tom the Hetlenn Unaversgil Clob
* Present address The Rocketeller Unuwersity. 1230 York Avenue New
York NY 10024
‘To whom requests lor repants should be addressed. at Insitute dor
Biomulec ulat Suucture and Punchkon Department of Brolopic al scwnces
hMuntes College City University of Sew York. 695 Park Avenue New
Yor NY 10021

at Lea

protein-tyrosine kinases activate intracellular signaling
pathways that often Jead to uncontrolled cell division
and transiormation (3) Intracellular sagnaling mechanisms
actwated by protein-tyrosine kinases are not well char.
acterized We previously demonstrated that v-Fps
induces 9E3/CEF4 (4, 5) pene expression via a PKC’.
dependent intracellular signahng mechanism (6) that re-
quues a GTP-binding protein (7)

An early response to all cell division signals examined
to date 15 the transcriptional actrvation of the Egr-1 pene
(8), which encodes a transenption factor (9, 10). Egr-1
binds to the same DNA sequences as the Wilms’ tumor
suppressor gene product (11, 12): thus, the induction of
tgr-l may be an early response to intracellular signals
thal Contnbute to tansfermation. In this report, we have
used recently characterized dominant negative mutants
ot HaRas (13, 14) and Raf-1 (15) and cells depleted of
PKC to establish and characterize an intracellular signal-
Ing mechanism activated by v-Fps that 15 independent of
PKC and Jeads to the nduction ot Egr-7 expression.

Results

v-Fps Transcriptionally Activates Egr-1 Gene Expression.
The induction of pnmary response genes [those induced
in the absence of protein synthesis (16)) 15 4 usetul early
phenotype for the charactenzation of intracellular signal
transduction pathways A primary response to all mito-
genic stimuh examined thus far 1s the induction ot the
transenmphon factor Epr-1 (6-10) We therefore examined
whether Egr-1 gene expression was induced in response
to the protemn-lyrosine kinase aclovity of v-Fps 3Y1-
NY225 cells express a temperature-sensitve v-Fps mu-
tant whose kinase activity 15 rapidly activated after tem-
perature shift (17, 18) 3¥1-NY225 cells mamtained at
the nonpermissive temperature for v-Fps (40°C) were
shitted to the permissive temperature (35°C), and levels
ot Egr- 1 RNA were determmed using Northern blot analy-
as Activating the kinase actwity of v-Fps resulted ina
transient increase in Egr- 71 RNA levels that peaked at 30
min (fag) 1a) v-Fps-anduced fgr-1 gene expression was
independent ot protein synthesis since pretreatment of
cell cultures with cycloheximde, which inhibus protein
synthesis, did not interfere with v-Fps-induced Egr-1
expression (data not shown) The parental 3¥1 cells did
nol show increased levels of Egr-1 MRNA upon temper-
ature shilt (data not shown). Thus. a primary response to
incteased v-Fps kinase activity 1s the induction of the
nulogen-responsive transcnpbvon tactor Egr 1.

 

* The abbresianons used ate PRO. protein kinase | PMA. phorbol 12
Dnmtiate 13 acetate CAT, chloramphenn ol 3c ety Itansterase

PUBLICATIONS

YDS ©

731

FILE COPY

012670