LIPID TRANSFER BETWEEN LIPOPROTEINS

proteins have a common architecture with an apolar core of
triglyceride and cholesteryl ester and a surface shell of 2-nm
thickness containing phospholipid, cholesterol, and apoproteins.
If differences in the surfaces of the lipoproteins account for
the observed differences in rate, the two features of greatest
importance would be the compasition and the radius of cur-
vature. Although some apoproteins occur in more than one
density range, there is no obvious gradation of protein com-
Position from VLDL to LDL to HDL. The importance of
minor lipid components as well as differences in the proportions
of the major lipid components is not known. Pyrene transfer
from a triglyceride-rich dispersion, with a diameter of 50 nm
and containing only the lipid components of VLDL but no
apopratein (Charlton et al., 19786), has a rate constant of 11.6
s", very close to that of VLDL, 15 st.

The rate of a reaction, [P];p 2 [P]* > [Plaq is given by
the Eyring theory as

kg= AP psotnan (25)
where AG? is the free energy of formation of the activated
complex, & is Boltzmann's constant, h is Planck’s constant,
and T is the temperature in degrees K, and R is the gas
constant (Glasstone et al., 1941). From the observed rate
constants, AG* can be calculated; from AG* = -RT In Kt,
the equilibrium constant K* for formation of the activated
complex is obtained. The calculated values for K* for pyrene
transfer from HDL, LDL, and VLDL are 49 x 1077, 11 x
10-2, and 2.4 X 107, respectively, If the activated state is
the probe in aqueous solution, K* would then be numerically
equivalent te the distribution coefficient and the association
rate would be encounter limited (10°-10 M7“ s). The
experimental value for [P].q under these experimental con-
ditions is 0.2 X 10 M (Charlton et al., 1976). The corre-
sponding free-energy change for transfer of pyrene from HDL
to buffer is 9.0 kcal mol; consequently, the activated state
of the probe must be mare energetic than the state of the probe
in buffer, since formation of the activated state for transfer
of pyrene from HDL requires an additional 4.9 kcal more
positive than that of pyrene in the aqueous solution.

The similarity of the distribution coefficients suggests that
the lipid core (solvent)-solute interactions are energetically
nearly identical in the three lipoprotein classes and that the
free-energy barrier must lie physically between the core and
the aqueous phase, presumably at the surface in the interfacial
region. Additional support for penetration of the interfacial
region as the kinetically limiting step is provided by the finding
that the transition state pX, of 9-(3-pyreny!)nonanoic acid is
about 4.5, rather than pH 7.1, the pX,, of the fatty acid in the
phosphatidyicholine surface (Doody et al., 1980). Moreover,
if the activated state corresponded to that of the probe in
buffer, the transfer of the probe from buffer to lipoprotein
would be diffusion controlled. The observed relationship be-
tween the transfer rates and the molal surface tension incre-
ment also supports the assignment of the kinetically limiting
processes to the interfacial region. The transfer of a hydro-
phobic molecule from the lipoprotein into the aqueous solution
requires the formation of a cavity in the aqueous solvent. The
energy required for this process has been related in a number
of systems (Melander & Horvath, 1977) to the surface area
of the solute molecule and the surface tension of the aqueous
solution. Consideration of activated state enthalpy AH* and
the corresponding entropy, AS*, listed in Table I, does not
provide a clear indication as to whether or not the differences
in rates of transfer between the lipoprotein classes have a single
origin as, for example, the entropy of activation.

VOL. 21, NO. 17, 1982 4029

A conceptual basis for the rate dependence on the lipoprotein
radius comes from an analogy to the evaporation of liquid
droplets described by Kelvin's law

In P/P = Ky fr (26)
where X is a constant, P is the vapor pressure over a curved
surface of radius 7 and the equivalent of ky the dissociation
constant, P° is the vapor pressure over a flat surface, and y
is the surface tension (LaMer & Gruen, 1952; DeFay et al.,
1966). Thus, the transfer of a compound from a lipoprotein
can be described by the relationship

kegoue™Reir (27)

where = is the interfacial tension. Data presented in Figure
4, which are for lipoproteins that range in diameter from 15
to 60 nm, illustrate the clear exponential relationship between
the log rate constant and the lipoprotein sizes. This equation
has also been used to describe small molecule transfer between
polymer particles in an oil-in-water emulsion (Ugelstad &
Mork, 1980).

The amphipathic molecules that comprise the surface of the
lipoproteins and membranes prevent extensive molecular in-
teractions between bulk aqueous and apolar phases and reduce
the interfacial tension to zero or to very low values (Gruen
& Haydon, 1980; Tanford, 1979}. Furthermore, the surfaces
of biological membranes and lipoproteins are topographically
heterogeneous (DePierre & Ernster, 1977), with the lateral
movement of both lipid and proteins several orders of mag-
nitude more rapid than the desorption process.

In summary, evidence has been presented to show that the
transfer and the rate of transfer of pyrene and DG between
lipoproteins can be treated simply as partitioning between two
immiscible phases. The rate can be modified by changing the
solubility of the transferring species in either phase. Radius
of the donor lipoprotein has a large effect, which may be
explained by a simple analogy with the evaporation of mole-
cules from the surface of a liquid droplet. Transfer rates
between different lipoprotein classes are intermediate between
the homogeneous transfer rates. The probability of transfer
of the lipophilic material from the aqueous solution to one of
several individual lipoprotein surfaces is governed by both the
number of lipaprotein macromolecules and their cross-sectional
area. Thus small lipoproteins, such as HDL and LDL, because
of the large number of particles, should have a promoting effect
on the equilibration of lipids in the circulation.

Acknowledgments

We are grateful for the helpful discussions and comments
of Drs. Henry J. Pownall, John B. Massey, William W.
Mantulin, Michael C. Doody, James Y. Kao, and Kirk C.
Aune. Phyllis Gutierrez and Sharon Bonnet provided excellent
assistance in preparation of the manuscript.

References

Almgren, M. (1980) J. Am. Chem. Soc. 102, 7882-7887.

Aquan-Yuan, M., Mackay, D., & Shiu, W. Y. (1979) J.
Chem, Eng. Data 24, 30-34.

Birks, J. B. (1970) Photophysics of Aromatic Molecules, pp
301-371, Wiley-Interscience, New York.

Charlton, S. C., Olson, J. S., Hong, K.-Y., Pownall, H. J.,
Louie, D.'D., & Smith, L, C. (1976) J. Biol. Chem. 251,
71952-7955,

Charlton, S. C., Hong, K.-Y., & Smith, L. C. (1978a) Bio-
chemistry 17, 3304-3309,

Charlton, S. C., Catapano, A. L., Kinnunen, P. K, J, &
Lomasky, S. J. (1978b) Fed. Proc., Fed. Am. Sac. Exp.
Biol. 37, 284.

50244036

mee