Reprinted from Biochemistry, 1982, 27, 4023.

Copyright © 1982 by the American Chemical Society and reprinted by permission of the copyright owner:

Kinetics of Transfer of Pyrene and

rac--Oleyl-2-[4-(3-pyrenyl)butanoyl]glycerol between Human Plasma

Lipoproteinst

Steven C, Charltont and Louis C. Smith*

ABSTRACT: Control of lipid transfer between plasma lipo-
proteins has been studied with pyrene and a pyrene-containing
diglyceride analogue, rac-1-oleyl-2-[4-(3-pyrenyl)butanoyl]-
glycerol. The rate constants for transfer of the fluorescent
probes between high-density lipoproteins in dilute solutions
containing ions of the Hofmeister series are correlated with
the molal surface tension increments produced by this lyotropic
series. Moreover, the rates of transfer correlate well with the
aqueous solubilities of the hydrophobic compounds, which were
increased in dilute solutions containing organic solvents. The
rates of transfer are faster with an increase in the distribution
coefficients of the probes between the lipoprotein donor and
the aqueous phase, suggesting that the rate-determining process
can be considered simply as a partitioning between two im-
miscible solvents. Rate constants for transfer of pyrene be-
tween high-density, low-density, and very low density lipo-
proteins depend on the ratio of the donor/acceptor lipoprotein

Pasma lipoproteins function as circulating reservoirs for a

wide variety of hydrophobic substances that have extremely
low solubility in aqueous solutions (Smith et al., 1978; Scanu
et al., 1979). These compounds include triglyceride, chole-
sterol, cholesteryl ester, and phosphatidylcholine as major
components and minor amounts of lipid-soluble vitamins and

. environmentally derived contaminants.

The relatively constant compositions of the circulating li-
poproteins result from five simultaneous processes: (1) syn-
thesis and secretion, (2) passive transfer and exchange of lipid

 

From the Division of Atherosclerosis and Lipoprotein Research,
Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine and The Methodist
Hospital, Houston, Texas 77030. Received February 17,1982. Support
for the research was provided by the Robert A. Welch Foundation Q-343,
the National Heart and Blood Vessel Research and Demonstration
Center, Baylor College of Medicine, a grant-supported research project
of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (HL-17269), and U.S.
Public Health Service Grant HL-15648,

tPresent address: Ames Co., Division of Miles Laboratories, Elkhart,
IN 46515.

concentrations and agree with those predicted from the dis-
tribution coefficients. In addition, the rate of transfer is in-
versely related to the lipoprotein radius, with a linear corre-
lation observed between the log of the rate constant and 1/
radius, By analogy with the evaporation of liquid droplets
described by Kelvin’s law, the transfer of a lipid from a li-
poprotein or a membrane surface can be described as kyave"**/"
where X is a constant, w is the interfacial surface pressure of
a curved surface of a radius 7, and kg is the dissociation
constant. These results show that the rate of transfer of lipids
can be modified by changes in the solubility of the transferring
species in the aqueous phase and imply that other factors, such
as solubility of the transferring species in the membrane and
the properties of the lipid-protein surface, may have important
roles in regulating the kinetics of lipid transfer in biological
systems.

and apoprotein components, (3) active transfer involving
specific plasma exchange proteins, (4) enzymatic changes in
composition involving lecithin—cholesterol acyltransferase and
lipoprotein lipase, and (5) removal from circulation by celfular
uptake of lipid and apoprotein components. The dynamics and
the contribution of each process to overall lipoprotein me-
tabolism are poorly defined.

All lipoproteins contain proteins, cholesterol, and phos-
pholipids in a surface film that surrounds a neutral lipid core
of cholesteryl ester and trigiyceride (Shen et al., 1977). Li-
poprotein surfaces have the dynamic properties of a two-di-
mensional fluid, in which there are rapid noncovalent inter-
actions between individual lipid and protein components, in-
volving both rotational motion and transiationai diffusion in
the surface (Lee, 1975; Thompson & Huang, 1978). Because
the lipid components of lipoproteins are soluble in the aqueous
solution to some extent, they also partition between the lipo-
protein surface and the aqueous solution (Charlton et al., 1976,
1978}. Since some lipoprotein components transfer on time
scales (milliseconds to hours) that are much shorter than the

50244030