promising current candidate, although some other possibilities exist. The Franklin
Fiber is a small whisker, about 2 um diameter and 60 um long. This aspect ratio
of 30 is in contrast to chopped fiberglass strand currently used (aspect ratio = 900)
and to glass microfibers (Manniglas 1000) which are about 0.5 um diameter and
1000 um long (aspect ratio = 2000). Consequently, the Franklin Fiber is less fiber-
like, packs to higher density, and provides less resiliency in formed shapes.
Extrusion, casting, and paper-making forming technologies have been investigated
and the paper-making process appears to produce the best results when 9%
softwood cellulose fiber is incorporated. Handsheets produced from the fiber
appear to have sufficient strength for processing and were used to make models.
Each model required about 140 mg of Franklin Fiber paper to produce a product
of suitable appearance and performance. Burning performance of baked-out fuel
sources appeared satisfactory and no major off-taste was detected. Problems to be
resolved consist of: [1] Elimination or masking of a minor off-taste, apparently
from the cellulose fibers. [2] Modification of the formulation to maintain ash
integrity after burning. [3] Improve overwrap design to enhance burning.
Present overwrap papers tend to extinguish the fuel source. [4] Slight
modifications in fuel source and insulator design to improve burning.

Franklin Fiber is a commercial product and sells for $1.50/lb in the anhydrous
form, which is the form used in the present work. A hemi-hydrate form is
available for $0.40/Ilb. Additional development activity may enable utilization of
this cheaper material which contains 6.2% water which is thermally evolved at
163° C.

MONOLITHIC CERAMIC SUBSTRATE -- Priority #3

For the past 18 months, I have been in loose contact with Corning Glass works
regarding their ability to extrude small honeycomb-type shapes which may be
suitable for use as a monolithic substrate in the RJR application. Until recently
their marketing and production strategy was to produce only large pieces such as
those used in automotive catalyst applications. In recent months, however, they
reversed their approach and have developed the technology to make small 0.25"
diameter honeycombs for catalyst substrates in ethylene oxide production. I
recently visited Corning and presented myself as a consultant for a large company
with a potential use for similar, but even smaller, honeycomb shapes. I was very
encouraged by their receptiveness and their technical ability to make large
numbers of incredibly small holes in extruded ceramic shapes. I saw one
developmental honeycomb product which had 1600 holes/in*. We need to discuss
the direction we want to pursue on this activity in light of this new extrusion
technology. We may at least want to patent the application of these special
extrudates in the RJR product. I should also note that this activity is definitely
back-burner to the the #1 priority activity of improving our ability to handle and
process the current specification material, spherical alumina beads.

WM
o
w
°o
Ww
=
wo
oe
&