- @l-

Characterization of the Proteins which are Closely Associated with Ligand-
Receptor Complex in the Clathrin-Coated Structures in Human KB Carcinona
Cells.

Recently, the concept of toxin-monoclonal antibody conjugates serving
as potential chemotheraputic agents has been shown to be experimentally
feasible. Several laboratories have successfully coupled cytotoxin
molecules to monoclonal. antibodies or ligands that bind to specific cell
Surface determinants or receptors. However, of major concern now is the
development of effective means to increase the intracellular half life and
intracellular toxicity of these cytotoxic conjugates. Since most proteins
after internalization by cells have been shown to be compartmentalized,
isolated from cytoplasm, and subsequently degraded in the lysosames, the
half life and toxicity of the cytotoxic conjugates would be greatly impaired
if these compounds followed this common intracellular pathway after
internalization. Thus, the development of a toxin-carrier which allows
cytotoxic conjugates to bypass lysosomal degradation and effectively pass
into the cytoplasm has become an important subject in the development of
chemotheraputic agents. To approach this problem, understanding the
structure of clathrin-coated pits would be an appropriated begining at the
Present time.

A primary observation from Ira Pastan's laboratory has been shown that
epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transferrin (TF) could be found in plasna
membrane coated pits (primary coated pits) at 6 min after ligand
internalization, At 22 min EGF was localized in Golgi coated pits
(secondary coated pits) while TF was localized in microtubule associated
vesicles, This observation clearly indicated that clathrin-coated
structures might play some role in the sorting of internalized ligands. In
addition, some receptors, such as those for EGF and TF, are randomly
Gistributed on the cell surface in the absence of ligand and only become
Concentrated (clustered) in coated pits in the presence of ligand. ‘his
also indicates that coated pits can aggregate certain ligand-receptor
complexes rather than unoccupied receptors. In order to have these sorting
processes, cells must have some specific proteins involved in these
processes. If it is the case, I believe that these specific proteins
involved in sorting ligand-receptor complexes must be closely associated
with the ligand-receptor complex. To characterize these specific proteins,
the tollowing experiments are proposed.

(1) To examine whether cells have the proteins which are closely
essociated with ligand-receptor complex in the clathrin-coated structuy Se
Experiments will be carried out to allow cells preincubated with °S-
methionine overnight to take up EGF and TF, At various time after uptake,
cells will be homogenized and clathrin-coated vesicles will be
imamnoadsorbed on anticlathrin-Staphlococcus aureus. The isolated clathrin-
coated vesicles will then react with bifunctional cross-linker, such as the
noncleabable cross-linker disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS), followed by
inmunoprecipitation with anti BGF-receptor antibody or anti [F-receptor
antibody. The inmunoprecipitates will then be characterized on SDS=PAGE,
followed by autoradiography. If there is any specific protein closely