t
heur Gud

- 62-

associated with ligand-receptor complex, it will be expected to see some
extra bands in addition to the receptor band after cross-linking,

(2) To isolate and purify those specific proteins which are closely
associated with ligand-receptor complex in the chathrin-coated structures.
If we do find the specific proteins closely associated with ligand-receptor
complex from the cross-linking experiment, next experiment will be to
isolate and purify those specific proteins using cleavable cross-linkers
such as dithiobis(succinimidy1 suberate) (DSP), thio-cleavabie; and
disuccinimidy] tartarate (DST), periodate-cleabable. ‘The isolated clathrin-
coated vesicles after reaction with cleavable cross-linker (DSP or DST),
will be immunoprecipitated with antireceptor antibody. The
immunoprecipitates will then be reacted with either reducing agents or
periodate depending on the cross-linker used. ‘he specific proteins we are
interested in will be further purified by gel filtration or ion-exchange
column chromatography.

(3) To make antibody againist the purified specific proteins, followed
by examining the biological effect of these antibodies. ‘his experiment
will be using purified specific proteins to make monoclonal or polyclonal
antibody. The biological effect of these antibodies will be tested by
measuring whether these antibodies can enhance the toxicity of cytotoxin-
carrier conjugates. Since these antibodies will interact with the proteins
in clathrin-coated structures, these antibodies may affect the stability of
the clathrin-coated structures resulting in release of cytotoxin-carrier
conjugates into cytoplasm.

Taken together, the proposed work to characterize the structure of
clathrin-coated pits may help us understand the intracellular pathway and
the sorting mechanism of the internalized ligand-receptor complex.
Furthermore, this information may also help us to select and design suitable
ligands to be used for coupling with cytotoxic molecules. Such conjugates
will be more toxic and specific to target cells and will be expected to have
a longer half-life. Thus, the information derived from this study may help
in the search for effective means to contro] the proliferation of malignant
celis.