'} MOLSON INDY”

|
ie

By DAN PROUDFOOT
Toronte Sun

e who qualifies 15th for
the Molson Indy will
blame his car’s setup. Bet
on it. For that matter,
anyone falling short of
winning the pole may
have a few choice words.
for the way his car is handlin,

Within minutes of the completion of
Saturday's final qualifying, the common
, Up and down the pits, will be some-
thing along the lines of , “We missed on
the setup, the car just doesn't want to go
around the turns.” Or, “the rear end tries to

snap around on the cement patches.”
Setup: That combination of springs,
shock absorbers or dampers, ride height
front and rear, wing angles and driver's
state of mind that determines how well a
ear consumes the turns, masters the

bumps, transfers power to the pavement.

story is all about missing the setup.

Hopeless

Miss the setup?Does this leave you
wondering? An engineer earning $500,000
or so per year and a race driver worth $3
million or more per annum, and together
they can’t make their 930-horsepower,
$750,000 Reynard do what it’s supposed to
do? Why, exactly?

‘The consequence of one car working
better than another is tiny, but huge. At
Long Beach this April — a street circuit
like Toronto’s — Paul Tracy qualified 17th.

The setup was hopeless.
And yet, Tracy's ifying lap was 1.345
seconds slower than pole-winner Gil de

Ferran’s. Imagine the difference of a
Second and a bit measured over 1.968

miles, Tracy was despondent. Both he and j

de Ferran were driving Honda-powered
Reynards with Firestone tires. His best.
effort-couldn’t compensate for the fact his
car’s setup wasn’t spot on.

It was Tracy who once uttered one of the
more memorable descriptions of an ill-
handling Penske car, following qualifying
for a Molson Indy several years ago.

“Think of a shopping, cart with one of the
front wheels sticking, that’s how this car
feels.”

Tracy is now more circumspect. More
experienced, too. In Long Beach, he un-
derstood his car likely would be more com-
petitive in race trim, The Team Kool Green
engineers decided in desperation to
change Tracy's car to the setup Greg
Moore had used in Long Beach in 1999.
Steve Challis, Moore’s long-time engineer,
had brought the pertinent notes with him
to TKG. Tracy went on to win the race.

“This new Reynard, at least for me, is a
knife-edge kind of car,” Tracy reflected
when asked why the pursuit of a workable
setup is proving so much more difficult
than in 1999,

“It’s either got a bunch of understeer or
it’s got a bunch of oversteer. And I haven't
heen able to find middle ground yet.”

Oversteer refers to the car wanting to
pivot, with the tail leading the nose. A car
with oversteer is said to be loose. An
understeering car, on the other hand, is
said to push: The driver turns the wheel
but the car doesn’t turn in equal measure,
its nose pushes toward the wall.

“Dario (teammate Dario Franchitti)
generally likes quite a bit of understeer ina
car — and he can achieve that in this car,

 

|

 

TORONTO SUN
Toronto, ON, CN
July 13, 2000

July 14@ 15 616

‘The Toronto Sun, Thureday July #3, 2000

 
  
  
  
 

1 Steering wheel display
and driver input

2 Antiroll bar position
sensors

& Roll hoop data
download port

4 Rear wheel bearing
temperature

§ Tire radio antenna

6 Rear damper position
sensors

7 Rear third spring
position sensor

8 Rear wheel speed
sensor

9 Front wheel speed
sensor

10 Tire pressure sensor
11 Push rod load sensor
42 Front damper position
sensor

 

2080721150

ABC's of a setup

whereas I can’t deal with massive under-
steer,” Tracy continued.
The 2000 Reynard is an evolutionary

' design, closely related to earlier Reynards.

But two changes account largely for the
knife-edge to which Tracy referred, First,
CART mandated a smaller under-wing to
prevent speeds from rising beyond current
levels, by lessening downforce. Second,
Firestone reacted to Goodyear pulling out
of CART by creating harder tires that are
longer lasting and safer, but offer less grip.

‘Natural talent’

Morris Nunn may be the most celebrat-
ed engineer within CART. Although he

formed his own team this year, he worked |
i with Alex Zanardi and Juan Montoya as |

the Target/Chip Ganassi drivers won the
four past championships in a row.
And yet Nunn points to the driver as a
critical part in finding a workable setup.
After all, Zanardi was sensational at

Exhibition Place, but Montoya, in his maid- !

en run last year, wasn’t Zanardi won the
1998 Molson Indy after finishiny ing second the
previous two years. He qualified second,
sixth and second here. And yet Montoya
was an unhapy camper here, qualifying
eighth and finishing 22nd after contact.

“We have to believe that if a guy like
Juan is not competitive, then it’s the ear,”
said Nunn, “But ... a driver has to help (in
developing the setup of a car). Now, I found
with Juan that he is not a technical guy,
he just has a natural talent.”

Nunn cannot remember as a certainty,
but he suspects the problem in Toronto
was Firestone supplying a newly-
developed tire, His setup that had been
successful in earlier years did not work as
well with the new tires’ different level of
grip. Now Nunn needed to develop a new
setup on the basis of what the Colombian
prodigy reported.

“The feedback from Juan was not as |-
} course, are drasth

good as the feedback from Zanardi, or from

 

Bryan Gerta, filling in for the injured Tony *

Kanaan). Juan would say to me, many
times, ‘Just get it somewhere near and I'll
do the rest.’

“He'd get out of the car and say, ‘OK, it’s
close enough,’ or, ‘Oh, the car is s—t.’ Which.
doesn’t tell you anything. So it is difficult (to
take steps to make the car work hetter).”

Nunn, in contrast to Tracy, views the ;

Reynard’s tendency to understeer as a
constant over the past five years, Yet, high-
lighting the different behaviour patterns
perceived by different drivers, Nunn
became convinced early this year that
somehow the push was gone.

“With Alex, Jimmy (Vasser) and Juan,
these cars always had understeer,” Nunn
explained. “That’s what we were improving
all the time, that’s what was controlling
entry and mid-corner speed.

“Now I have my own team and a new
driver, Tony Kanaan, and when Tony got
in this car, he said, ‘There's no understeer
whatsoever. The car goes everywhere I
want it to go.”

“You wonder, how did they achieve that
with the same uprights and suspension
geometry, nothing changed. In fact I called
Alex and said he'd be amazed, this car has
no understeer.

More grip

“But we go to Portland last month end
Bryan, filling in for Tony, gets out of the
ear and says, ‘Understeer! You turn the
wheel, the front end washes out.”

This sort of confusion delights Nunn,
because he can figure it out. And it demon-
strates how finding the perfect setup
depends on understanding your driver.

Tony Kanaan is a late braker, braking

not only as he approaches a turn, but as*

he begins turning the steering wheel. The
weight transfer from the braking affords
the front wheels more grip: They turn more
effectively,

Qualifying setup and race setup, of
feally different. In qualify-
ing the driver storms the track, in Tracy's

| words pushing to 110%, hecause the only
Bn is the fastest single lap.

“Team Kool Green certainly hasn’t done
la real good job with the qualifying setups,
we've done good with the race setups,” said
team owner Barry Green.

“We want the car basically in qualifying
to go as fast. as we possibly can. We want
the car in race conditions to go fast, but
| the driver to be very comfortable over the
race distance, There’s a big difference.”

Ayear ago, Tracy and engineer Tony
Cicale, who rejoined the team mid-season,
were considered the epitome of success-
ful chemistry betwixt driver and engineer.
Tracy invariably qualified among the top
; five — after having struggled through 1998
to break into the top 10.

I This year, with different tires and less

downforce, they’re still a formidable part-
nership but they're not qualifying where
the want to be.

“It’s a complex issue,”Cicale said when
. asked about the difficulty. “A driver might
: report that the car is understeering, in
i effect it might be understeering — but that
may not be the limit of what his lap time is.

“His lap time might be deficient because
of a traction problem. Now, he might nat
rate that very high. So it’s really quite
important to understand not only what the
car is doing, but to come to some conclu-
| sion, If we make the understeer better,
will we go faster?’ Or, ‘If we make the
traction better, will we go faster?’

“So it’s quite important that the driver
determines not only what he doesn’t like
about the car, but also kind of prioritizes
that and determines, ‘Will that affect my
Jap time?’”

The Tracy-Cicale ship's progress
| in solving such Caiscos, whether remarka-
| ble or distressing, will become only too
| obvious Saturday afternoon.

Meanwhile, reflect on Morris Nunn’s
considerable wisdom,

“These things are not easy,” he said. “If
it-was, then we'd win every race.”