To:

Subject:

PARK 500 /
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
CHESTER, VIRGINIA

Mr. W. C. Holloman — Date. November 7, 1988

J. W. Lusk je :

Line III Evaporators ~- Soaking for Cleaning

In reference to your question about soaking the evaporators as an
alternative means of cleaning, I contacted Sirrine to see if the
structural steel was designed to support this type of load.

The attached letter from Jeffrey Reeves of Sirrine confirms that the as
structural steel will support the flooded weight of all four evaporators.

Since Mr. Reeves left open the question on the support lugs for the
evaporator, I contacted Chemetron. Mr. Mike Martin of the Engineering ~
Department at Chemetron told me by phone on November 1, 1988, that all
evaporators they build are designed to be flooded and the support lugs are
designed to handle this type of load. He said that soaking is a common
practice with many of their evaporator customers. He cautioned us not to
run the main drive on the rotor as this would do damage to the unit. He
mentioned that some users do have a "clean out drive" that turns the rotor
very, very slowly to help agitate the soaking solution. He also said to
not put any extra pressure on the unit while soaking (i.e. keep vent.
valves open so pressure cannot build up).

My recommendation based on the above is to only soak 1 evaporator at
a time and ensure that the’ main rotor drive is locked out prior to filling
the evaporator. Pulling the cover plate off the top of the mist
eliminator and removing the eliminator screen will provide both a vent
opening and an inspection port to allow your operator to see when the
evaporator is full of water. With this cover off, you could fill the
evaporator with process hot water and crack open the jacket steam just a
little (5 PSIG or less) to keep the water hot while the unit is soaking.

I understand you have a procedure being written for this operation
which I will be reviewing with you prior to using the soaking method for
cleaning.

If you have any questions, please contact me.
cc: A. 0. Hayes
J. R. Lawrence

F. E. Solesbee
J. T. White

2031263025 ~