3. Payment.

In full and complete consideration for the services
rendered by DWPR throughout the term of the Agreement, Philip
Morris will pay DWPR $38,500. Philip Morris will pay DWPR $5,500
within ten days of execution of the Agreement and submission of an
invoice; $11,000 upon submission of an invoice on January 1, 1993;
and $22,000 upon DWPR's complete performance to the satisfaction of

Philip Morris and submission of the comprehensive wrap-up report
and an invoice.

4. Expenses.

(a) Philip Morris will reimburse DWPR $3,000 for all
expenses incurred :n connection with faxes, photocopying and

postage, upon submission of an invoice within thirty days of
execution of the Agreement.

(b) Philip Morris will reimburse DWPR for other
reasonable, competitively priced expenses incurred in providing
services. Total expenses throughout the term of the Agreement will
not exceed $41,000. Expenses included within a budget submitted to
and approved in advance by Philip Morris are presumptively
reasonable and competitively priced. Total expenses are not to
exceed the total of estimated expenses included in the budget
approved by Philip Morris without the advance written approval of
Philip Morris. Philip Morris will advance DWPR the sum of $10,000
against expenses within thirty days of execution of the Agreement

and submission of an invoice. Upon application of the advance to
expenses, DWPR will deliver itemized invoices for the expenses
incurred to Philip Morris. Requests for reimbursement must be

itemized and submitted monthly. Expenses in excess of $25 must be
submitted with receipts. Expenses in excess of $250 which are not

included in a budaet approved by Philip Morris must be approved in
advance by Philip Morris.

5. Term and Termination

The term cit the Agreement will commence November 1, 1992
and continue until December 31, 1993. Philip Morris may terminate
the Agreement, with or without cause, on thirty days advance
written notice to DWPR. If Philip Morris terminates the Agreement,
Philip Morris will pay DWPR pro rata for services actually
performed by DWPR through the date of notice of termination and
Philip Morris will have no liability or payment obligation to DWPR
after notice of termination with the exception of payment
obligations incurred prior to notice of termination. DWPR will
promptly refund tne unearned portion of any payment received from

Philip Morris and the unapplied amount of expenses advanced by
Philip Morris to DWPR.

L9ESSS0K02