(h) Provide daily updates if and when requested by
Philip Morris, and deliver to Philip Morris monthly

throughout the term of the Agreement a written status
report;

(i) Deliver to Philip Morris within three weeks of the
conclusion of the Tournament, a comprehensive wrap-up
report, including a media summary, newspaper clippings,
press releases, media lists, photos, ancillary backup
materials and recommendations to Philip Morris together
with an executive summary of media highlights; and,

(j) Utilize the hardware and software comprising the
Virginia slims SLIMSTAT System (the "System") by
accessing, adding and disseminating information to
generate publicity for the Tournament, including the

placement of feature stories, column mentions, and sport
stories.

DWPR Willi pertorm in accordance with the highest industry
standards prevailing for similar services in the United States.
2. SLIMSTAT Equipment.

(a) Philip Morris will provide DWPR with one Hewlett-
Packard LS/i2 Lap ‘Top Computer, and one Hewlett-Packard ThinkJet
Printer Style 225P ‘the "Equipment") for use throughout the term of
the Agreement. rne Equipment will remain the property of Philip
Morris. DWPR will provide security for the Equipment and exercise
reasonable care in its use and operation. If the Equipment is
damaged due to DWPR'= negligence in storing or using the Equipment,
DWPR will reimburce Philip Morris for the cost of repairing the
damage, up to a maximum of $3,000. Philip Morris will pay all
other costs incurred in connection with the maintenance and repair

of the Equipment .son DWPR's submission of itemized invoices.
Expenses incurred tor

‘Lr malntaining or repairing the Equipment must
be approved in advance by Philip Morris.

(b) CWPR will use the System and the Equipment only in
connection with DwWwPR's performance of the Agreement and for no
other purpose. OWPR has no, and will claim no, right or interest
in the System or the Equipment other than the right to use the
System and the Equipment pursuant to the Agreement.

Lf
o

99eG50v02