not caused by Philip Morris. DWPR's obligation to indemnify and

hold harmless will survive the termination or expiration of this
Agreement.

ll. Insurance

Upon execution of this Agreement, DWPR will deliver to
Philip Morris original certificates of insurance evidencing
coverage for (i) comprehensive general liability including
contractual and advertiser liability, with limits of no less than
$1,000,000 combined single limit for bodily injury, including
personal injury, and property damage; (ii) comprehensive automobile
liability, including all owned, non-owned and hired vehicles, with
limits of no less than $1,000,000 combined single limit; (iii)
statutory workers' compensation coverage meeting all state and
local requirements; and (iv) employer's liability with limits of no
less than $500,cC00. The insurance certificates required by
subparagraph (i) ana (11) must name Philip Morris, its affiliates,
employees, representatives and agents as additional insureds and
provide that Philip Morris must have at least thirty days! advance,

written notice <r any cancellation or modification of the
insurance.
12. Indepenuent Tontractor
Each -t OWPR and Philip Morris is an independent

contractor of tne vtner ind this Agreement shall not be construed
to create an association, partnership, joint venture, relation of
principal and agent cr employer and employee between Philip Morris
and DWPR or any ot CWPR's agents within the meaning of any federal,
state or local Law. OWPR will not enter into any agreement, oral
Or written, on cehalt ot Philip Morris or otherwise obligate Philip
Morris without naving previously obtained Philip Morris'

written
approval.
L3. Exclusivity. _ _
(a) ~uUring tne term of the Agreement and for six months
thereafter, DWPR «will not,

directly or indirectly, without the
prior written approval ot Philip Morris, engage in any promotional,
publicity or public relations services within the United States for

a company or entity the products of which compete with any tobacco
product of Philip Morris.

(b) OWPR will not, directly or indirectly, for a period
of time beginnina + fays prior to the Tournament and ending 30
days after compieticn ct the Tournament, render similar services
without the pricr uritten consent of Philip Morris.

ZQEGSEOvOe