6. Records

DWPR, .ts employees and agents will maintain detailed and
accurate books and records of account with respect to activities
undertaken on behalf of Philip Morris. Philip Morris or its
designated agent ay inspect, review and copy DWPR's books and
records at reasonable times during normal business hours upon

reasonable, advance notice to DWPR and at the expense of Philip
Morris.

7. Confidentiality

DWPR, .tS employees and agents will hold strictly
confidential all .ntormation and materials provided by Philip
Morris or created ny DWPR in connection with the Agreement. The
information and -aiteriais will remain the property of Philip
Morris. DWPR wi.l mot use or disclose such information unless
authorized to dc -: in writing by Philip Morris. Upon termination
Or expiration of: “ne Aureement, DWPR will return all materials to
Philip Morris. PR's celigation to maintain the confidentiality

of all informaticn :nu material obtained by DWPR from Philip Morris
or created by DWPR .n connection with its performance will survive
the termination -r »xpiration of the Agreement.

8. QOwnersnip
All materiai prepared or developed by DWPR in connection

with the Agreement .1ll become the property of Philip Morris and
DWPR agrees to :3Sign to Philip Morris any and all rights to

copyright the ruterial. OIWPR will require that all employees,
consultants anda abcoentractors performing creative services in
connection with “ne Aureement agree to assign the materials they

produce to Phili: “srris and to acknowledge, in writing, that their
copyrightable contr:iLuticns are owned by Philip Morris.

9. Third :ourty Jsntacts

If at eny time DWPR is contacted by a third party,
including the media, sther than as contemplated by the terms of the
Agreement, concerning its activities on behalf of Philip Morris,
DWPR will make no womment, immediately notify Philip Morris of the

third party contact, ina reter the third party to Philip Morris,
Director, Event Mirketind.
10. Indemn:ty

DWPR aurees to indemnify and hold harmless Philip Morris,
its affiliates and cacn of their respective officers, employees,
directors and agents trom any claim, liability, cost or expense,
including reasonable ittorneys!' fees, that arise from, or may be
attributable to any error, omission or fault of DWPR, and that are

- 4 =—

89ES4640b0z2