: ee AEG SEMAN EI ee
Brief description of Study and note on current progress Sree

0 0 the . Author : 'P.N. Lee :
Date : 29.11.82

The Hospital Inpatients Study is a case-control study funded by
the Tobacco Advisory Council carried out under the direction of Professor
M.R, Alderson, formerly of the Institute of Cancer Research, and now at
the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys. The main objective of
the study is to investigate the relationship between type of cigarette
smoked and the incidence of four different index diseases - lung cancer,
chronic bronchitis, ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease,
For each index disease, the objective was to obtain interviews of 200
cases and 200 controls in each of 8 age/sex Categories (male or female
x age 35-44, 45-54, 55-64 or 65-74), giving a total target of 12,800
interviews though it was realised that for some combinations (e.g. young
female chronic bronchitics) it would not be practicable to achieve the
target. All interviews are. Carried out by trained interviewers of Research
Surveys of Great Britain in hospital, almost 100 hospitals in 10 hospital
regions being used, Controls are patients with diseases not associated
with smoking and are individually matched to cases on 5eX, age, hospital)

region and in -about 90% of cases on hospital itself,

Following a Pilot study in the Newcastle region in 1976/77, the
results of which will be included in the main study results, interviewing
has been carried out Over the period 1978/81, different hospital regions
Starting at different times following Separate negotiations by Professor

Alderson in each region,

The original questionnaire asked detailed questions on the smoking
habits of the respondent, including a detailed historical account of nunber
of cigarettes smoked and brand smoked most often. The time of switching
from smoking mainly plain to mainly filter Cigarettes was asked and is
& critical variable for the main objective of the study. Questions were
also asked regarding a humber of possible confounding variables; age, marital

status, height, weight, area of residence, Occupation, social class,

}

education, family history of disease, presence of cardiorespiratory
Symptoms, past history of certain diseases, use of the pill and whether past

the menopause (women only), drinking of ter, coffee and alcohol,

a
S
So
WA .
~~.
Wn
<)
&
@