ARK

SWEDISH MATCH

. . May 28, 1997

LE 4

The Honorable Arne H. Carlson
Governor's Office

130 State Capitol

St. Paul, MN 55155

Dear Governor Carlson:

Tam wriling to you on behalf of Swedish Match North America Inc. (“SMNA") to express
my company’s Concer about particular aspects of HF. No. 117. By way of background, SMNA
has recently bogun to import cigars into tho United States. Our product line ic comprised of
cigars in all price segments (from low priced to premium) and it is our intention to introduce over
30 varieties of cigats into the United States’ market, Accordingly, SMINA's entry imo the United
States (and Minnesota) cigar market will foster greater competition and offer adult consumers of
cigars additional products from which to choose.

Section 5 of HLF. No, 117, however, represents 4 substantial bartier to SMNA's entry of
the Minnesota cigar market. This section would require companies that sc cigars in Minucsota
to submit annual reports which idenrify, by brand, whether detectable levels of ammonia o1 any
compound of ammonia, arsenic, cadmium, formaidehyde or lead are present in thelr prochuct in its
burned or unburned state.

SMNA does not currently have in place any testing procedures to determine the presence
of these substances, J hag never had a need to develop sch jnocedures, because no other
country or state requires collection of this information. Moreover, the development of such
testing procedures would take significant time. SMNA would nut be able to develop such
procedures prior to August 1, 1997 -- the date by which sellers of cigars in Minnesota must begin
to collect data regarding and disclose the presence of the HF. No. 117 enumerated substances. '
Finally, even if a testing procedure could be developed in a timely mannor, the cost of testing over '
30 varieties of cigars both in a burned and unburned state would be substantial. |

i

Faced with these problems, SMNA simply could not sell its cigars in the state of
Minnesota. Besed upon SMNA's knowledge of the United States cigar industry, SMNA
anticipates that other relatively omell cigar manufketurers and importers would he forced to make
the same choice because ILF, No. 17's requirements would be too burdensuime. Moreover, even
larger cigar manufacturers and importers would be faced with wils choice, In stus, the impact of

Swedish Match Chewing ‘lobacce Division

ane I a RI

 

 

 

 

adress” rene tax OME TU EET A aaa
6800 wos: Bond firon (G04) 287-8200 04} 267-2208

Pest Oifice Box 14688

Reohmora, Vegisa 99220: 1688

T11121-1794