5 r
Tae WasuinePost A18 Torso 19,1997 Kgs J

Pentagon Steps Up Effort to Limi

 

Promotion, Sale of Tobacco in Military

 

educational environment, a new culture

community {fs striving to reduce the

By Bradley Graham in which the command was saying effects of tobacco on the activeduty
an RON Pont Lat er smoking is not cool, it's not good for you force and its beneficiary population.”
Stepping up efforts to curb cigarette and it’s bad for overall readiness of the In a move that defense officials see as

smoking among military personnel, the
Pentagon intends to ban such premo
tional practices as military-only discount
coupons and tobacco company pay-
ments ts stores for favorable product

force.”

Defense Department attempts to cur-
tail smoking began in the mid-1980s,
although the campaign was limited then
to educating service members about the

retaliation for the earlier price hike. a
House National Security subcommittee
inserted language in this year's defense
authorization bill shifting responsibility
for overseeing the military stores from

placement, and will limit the amount of health risks of using tobacco products. Pang's force management office to the
shelf space reserved for tobacco prod- By the early 1990s, a government-wide comptroller. $
ucts in military outlets. effort to ban smoking in federal areas Rep. John M. McHugh (N.Y),

The Defense Department's
antismoking drive reflects heightened
concern, Pentagon officials say, about
the drain on tighter military budgets of
lost productivity and rising health care
costs associated with smoking, But the
Pentagon's inifiative has generated
sparks over the past year with a House
defense subcommittee, many of whose
members have received campaign dona-

led to a smoke-free Pentagon and desig-

nated smoking areas on military bases,
But raising commissary prices was a
much more sensitive proposition, be-
cause the discounts available in these
government-subsidized military super-
markets are highly valued by service
members. Defense officials were reluc-
tant to single out any product as an
exception. Besides, tobacco products

chairman of the House National Securi-
ty Committee’s panel on morale, welfare
and recreation (MWR), said in an inter-
view that the measure had nothing to do
with getting even. “It simply was an
attempt to respond better to MWR
programs, whose major crises are all
financially related." the congressman
stressed.

But the Pentagon is convinced re-

tions from the tobacco industry. were big business for commissaries, faved . r
A decision last summer to raise the generating $747 million in revenue and venge played a part in the panel's
price of cigarettes sold in military com- $103 million in profits and surcharge attempt to eliminate the job held by
missaries led to heated congressional revenue in 1995. Stephen Rossetti Jr. a former Demo-
charges that the Pentagon had failed to What finally prompted the Pentagon cratic staff member on the House sub-
consult sufficiently with legislators and ta act were the rising costs of smoking- committee who was hired by Pang to

was Violating federal pricing rules that
required commissaries to sell products
at “the lowest practical price.” One
tobacco-state lawmaker, Rep. C. Saxby
Chambliss (R4Ga.), warned the Penta-
gon earlier this year not to impose the
restrictions on cigarette advertising and
marketing that defense officials have
now formally notified Congress they

related productivity losses and medical
care, estimated at $930 million in 1995.
“We were actually asking the Ameri-
can taxpayer to subsidize a product that
we knew was injurious to health, in
which there were substantial costs,”
said Fred Pang, the Pentagon’s assistant
secretary for force management.
Cigarettes are still sold in the mili-

revamp the military stores and imple
ment the new cigarette policy.

“The panel's action clearly was at
least somewhat retaliatory,” said Pang.
“The comptroller could certainly do the
job, but the military stores are regarded
by service members as a benefit. a very
valued benefit, and all the benefit pro-
grams fall under this office. The pro-

plan to put into effect this summer. tary’s 230 commissaries, but responsi posed change would be an added re-
Although the latest measures are not bility for managing the sales now rests sponsibility for the comptroller that
expected to draw enough congressional with the military exchanges, which are doesn't make any sense.”

opposition to block them, the smoking
issue generally has placed the Pentagon
in the trying position of balancing con-
cems about the health and fitness of
service members against the rights of
members to choose whether to smoke.
For years, military life facilitated
smoking. Mess kits contained free ciga-
rette packs, Tobacco firms would send
cigarettes to combat zones as a patriotic
gesture, a practice stopped during the
1991 Persian Gulf War. Training drills
allowed for periodic smoke breaks, Car-
tons could be purchased in military
commissaries for discounts of up to 76

not subsidized and so charge more.
Even so, tobacco prices in these military
outlets remain below commercial retail
levels—a fact that defense officials ap-
pear resigned to accept rather than
court more political attack.

“We considered raising prices to pre
vailing market rates, and we concluded
that at least for now, the pricing policy
we have is defensible.” said Pang. “We
have not rejected absolutely that we
would not do something like raise prices
farther. That is under review now.”

Areport by the Pentagon's inspector
general, issued in December, urged that

Ina letter to McHugh last week, Pang
enclosed a draft copy of the new order”
limiting promotional displays and shelf.
space for tobacco products in military.
stores. Additional measures banning
cigarette sales to anyone under age 18,
free samples and vending machine operr
ations were being taken to conform to
Food and Drug Administration rules,
Pang wrote, a

The Pentagon's declining tolerance
for smoking has resulted in a drop in the
proportion of smokers in uniform, from

ww

52 percent in 1985 to 32 percent, slighthy

percent off commercial retail prices. prices be lifted to commercial retail above the civilian proportion. By 2000, co
“A lot of people picked up smoking in levels. “The Department of Defense is defense officials intend to cut the num- oO
the military,” said John Mazzuchi, a sending a mixed message to its benefi- ber of active-duty personnel who smoke
Pentagon health official who has had a ciary population,” it said. “DOD should to 20 percent, oO
role in the antismoking effort’s slow not encourage tobacco sales through “We going to continue to push it, but w
evolution. “We had to create a new discounted prices when the DOD health we have to look for our opportunities” O°
said Mazauchi. “Having been here 24 C™
years, | now you don't win every battle, ~~3

Weil take our victories where we can
get them,” ,