-|(5-

Vi. AIR QUALITY LABORATORY. (Personnel: Heavner, Smith, Boose, Hairston)

During the past quarter, the following routine analyses were conducted:

Method Number
Particulate 840
Nicotine 342
G-VOC 4]
GC-Miscel laneous 36

Total 1,259

Seven samples included in the GC-VOC total above were collected with an
impinger sampling train and freeze-out at RJR Archer Bldg. #604-2 from the
press exhaust ducts and the floor sweep. Isopropy! acetate and toluene were
the solvents of interest. Some problems in sampling were encountered due to
the high moisture levels in the exhausts. Solid sorbents are being studied
as a possible replacement for the liquid traps for solvent studies of this
type.

Mr. Ken Smith joined the Air Quality Group during July as a replacement
for Mr. Dick Wolfe. Mr. Smith has spent the major portion of his time reviewing
the previous and revised PSD regulations with an emphasis on the monitoring
requirements for permits for new construction or modification of existing
facilities. He has attended two one-week EPA training courses to help prepare
him for work in this area.

Mr. Smith has also been involved in preparing to make performance
specification tests on the new continuous monitoring equipment at Bailey
Power Plant. Regulations have been reviewed including those dealing with
methods and quality assurance, and necessary materials have been ordered.
Coordination of these tests is the function of the Engineering Department.
Mr. David Heavner will also be involved in both the testing and analysis of
samples.

Personnel In both the air and water laboratories have been Involved in
tracking the respiratory problems at Building #97. Mr. Riley Davis has been
involved with the committee studying this problem and with the microbiological
survey of the areas involved. Mr. David Heavner has been involved in the
sampling and analysis of possible volatile organic compounds in these areas
with considerable assistance in analysis from the Mass Spectroscopy Group.

No problem VOC's or other air contaminants have been identified to date as
being the cause of these respiratory problems.

“SLO LZEOS