D. Marketing Strategies and Plans ; .

1. Product: Continue to offer consumers a product that is
superior in taste and satisfaction to all leading low "tar"
brands.

t low 'tar'" as research indicates these points are the
most important to target smokers. Secondarily, communicate
REAL's unique all-natural attribute as the Brand's point-
of-difference. A more impactful layout will be used to
call attention to this revised message. Continued emphasis
will be given to the uniquely masculine imagery previously
conveyed in the advertising to assure long-term growth.

2. Copy: Place primary emphasis on "rich, satisfying taste
yet 1

3. Media: Continue to target to dissatisfied smokers (currently
273 full flavor, 1/3 Hi-Fi smokers with a young male/female
skew) on a broad but efficient basis. Sunday supplements
and targeted national magazines will provide the base of the
plan with the addition of out-of-home locally based on the
original brand potential analysis until a more precise market
development ranking is possible.

4. Sales Promotion: Within the context of REAL's revised
advertising message, implement heavy sampling and multi-
pack promotional programs to gain retrial and additional new
trial, leading to a significantly higher conversion rate.

E. Testing and Development

In 1978 REAL will initiate a consumer testing program designed
to insure that the Brand's potential is maximized.

1. Product: Continuous testing of REAL versus new low "tar"
entries will be conducted to assure the validity of our
superiority claim. Additionally, should the opportunity
present itself, 100mm line extensions will be developed and
tested to verify their superiority versus the competition.

2. Copy Media/Sales Promotion: As the trend toward low "tar"
continues, testing efforts will continue, to maintain a
clear understanding of the attitudes and demographics of
this dissatisfied smoker group. As our learning increases,
programs to efficiently reach and persuade this group will

be identified/tested/implemented.

€S6E LLLOS