DRAFT LETTER TO RURT OFFICERS

 

Date

Name
Address

Dear

I am sure you recognize the extent to which our future success depends

on decisions made by elected officials in Washington and the state capitals.
Anti-tobacco groups are intensifying their efforts to achieve a "smoke-free
society,” and supporters of our industry in Congress and the state legis-
jatures are finding it more difficult and politically costly to take a stand
on our behalf.

If we are to improve the legislative climate, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco must
dramatically increase its involvement in the political process. We must
continually ask elected officials for their support, and it is vital that we
be in a position to support them in return. As you know, the RJR Political
Action Committee is the best means available for our company to financially
support candidates who will consider our views intelligently and fairly.
However, for a variety of reasons, current PAC receipts are inadequate to
meet cur increasing needs.

The RJR PAC deserves your most serious consideration and attention. Parti-
cipation in the PAC is voluntary, and no rewards or penalties are involved,
but any officer who is unwilling to make an investment in R. J. Reynolds
Tobacce’s future by supporting the PAC fails to recognize the importance of
the challenges we face in the political process.

Enclosed is a membership form and a return envelope for the RJR PAC. The
suggested contribution rate for the RJR PAC is .6% -- recognizing that
officers are also asked to contribute .4% to The Tobacco Institute PAC for a
total of 1% gross salary. Payroll withholding is, of course, the preferred
method of participation in the RJR PAC. A contribution form for TIPAC will]
be sent te you after the first of the year.

I am confident that all RURT officers will join me in supporting the PAC.
If you are already contributing, but at less than the suggested rate, I
encourage you to consider increasing your level of support.

Sincerely,

  

James W. Johnston

QSS2 2920S