REYNOLDS TOBACCO CALLS FOR COMMON SENSE
REGARDING ADVERTISING ISSUES

 

The debate over cigarette advertising in magazines needs a big dose of common sense.

Critics of our advertising don’t want children to see cigarette ads in magazines published
for and read by adults. However, the only way to guarantee that no child ever saw a
cigarette ad would be to completely ban cigarette advertising.

The real issue is whether cigarettes should be treated as legal products for adults, and
whether manufacturers have the right to communicate with adult smokers.

Cigarettes are already the most restricted consumer product in terms of marketing and
advertising, but we have the legal right to advertise in adult smokers in publications that
are not youth-oriented.

Does seeing a cigarette ad cause children -- or adults -- to begin smoking? Common
sense tells you no. Government and university studies show that peer pressure and
family influence are the primary factors in smoking initiation. And common sense tells
you that the vast majority of tobacco messages that youth are exposed to today are anti-
smoking messages.

So what would further restricting cigarette advertising — or banning it — accomplish? It
would be one more step in attempting to make smoking more socially unacceptable — and
once again, treating a legal product as if it were illegal. It would deprive cigarette
manufacturers of a constitutional right, but it would not resolve the youth smoking issue.

Our standard is to advertise only in publications in which at least two-thirds of the
readership is age 18 or older. Further, we evaluate the editorial content of the
publications over time to be sure the topics covered are of interest to predominantly adult
audiences. We review the other advertisers who appear in those publications to ensure
that most are for products which primarily are purchased by adults. We also review
factors such as the publications’ circulation dynamics and method of distribution.

The same magazines we advertise in carry ads for other adult products — such as alcohol,
household appliances, and furniture. In 1998, the major tobacco companies signed an
agreement with the States’ attorneys general that enacted sweeping bans and restrictions
on cigarette marketing. This agreement does not prohibit us from communicating with
adults who choose to smoke.

£980 bOtcCS