TNO-report

eee

B-92-0388 May 1992 page 30

The measuring principle of the odorous sample is as follows: The odorous sample is diluted a
number of times, with the help of a dilution unit (with dilution steps of a factor 2). Part of
the diluted odorous air flow is presented for assessment to a panel of eight members,

The members of the panel each sit in a separate “sniffing booth" (see figures 17 and 18).
There are three sniffing beakers in each booth. From one of these beakers flows diluted odor-
ous air, whereas the other two beakers present a flow of odourless air. An air flow of 20
l/min flows from each beaker. The members of the panel have to indicate from which of the
three beakers comes the diluted odorous air. Even though they may not observe a difference
between the three beakers, they have to make a choice (a so-called forced three-way test).
They indicate their choice by pressing one of the three corresponding buttons. The members
of the panel are exposed to five or six consequent odour flows which increase in steps of a
factor 2 in concentration. This is done at least four times per measurement. The odour flows
are distributed arbitrarily among the three beakers. The reactions of the members are
corrected for guessing, as they have a chance of 33.3 % of choosing the correct beaker. With
the help of a computer program, the dilution factor is calculated (in numerical value corre-
sponding with the odour concentration), where 50 % of the panel members are able to distin-

guish the diluted odorous air from the odourless air,

The air present in the measuring car is led about 40 times per hour over an active charcoal
filter to keep it odourless. Moreover, a slight overpressure is maintained inside the truck to
prevent leaking of odorous air into the truck. The members of the odour panel are hired
through an employment agency. Heavy smokers and persons having a cold or heavily per-

fumed are excluded. No requirements are made as to their individual sense or smell.

U2Z2£ 101062