oo “7 pawealtl
—

S ome

  

. cpol
“DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH . re
THE SECRETARY : HARRISBURG | \ ,
: . 17120 :

“March 22, 1965

The Honorable: Warren Magnuson
Chairman, Committee on Commerce
United States Senate ‘
Washington, D.C,

Dear Senator Magnuson:

As a past President of the Association of State and Territorial Health

Officers and the representative of that Association on the National Interagency
- Council on Smoking and Health, Ihave been designated by our Association to
write to you to express the opinion of our Association concerning S, 559 and

S. 547. These bills are concerned with federal requirements for cigarette
labeling and advertising and are before your Committee on Commerce for.
consideration,

At its 1964 annual meeting our Association, composed of the health
officer of each state and each territory of the United States, passed a recom-
mendation to the effect that since cigarette smoking is a proven health hazard
the state health departments and the United States Public Health Service‘need to
develop comprehensive programs to help to bring under control the habit of
cigarette smoking. A copy of the Association recommendation is attached.

' In view of the fact that our members unanimously agreed that scientific
‘evidence shows that cigarettes are in truth a health hazard, we would like to be-on
record as supporting the type of federal legislation embodied in S. 559 or S. 547.
We feel that the major health hazards for which cigarette smoking is a causative
factor, such as cancer of.the lung, emphysema and chronic bronchitis, are so
important today that people who smoke cigarettes, should be able to read on the -

labeling on the cigarette package the dangers to their health they are facing by
continual cigarette smoking, ‘ . ,

‘We also feel that the Federal Trade Commission needs to have its
position clearly understood and Strengthened as far as labeling and advertising .
is concerned, Whether this needs specific wording as to advertising asin S. 547 —
or simply leaves the Fedéral Trade Commission free to propose and undertake
such advertising control as it wishes under its existing authority is a matter about -
Which we do not feal sufficiently knowledgeable to cuminent at this time, except
facsay that the opinion of the Bederal rade Commission Fepardiap the adverts sigs

vlawie and theit ability to administer ib should be given much weight,

TLSE H6tos