y-

August 17, 1989

To: Distribution

Subject: Nelpmann Qualification Testing

The following are results of requalification testing of the Neipmann Reclaim unit
on VANTAGE Charcoal-Japan production. These tests were performed August 3-11 in
Dept. 1-1 at #1 Cigarette.

PHASE TIT

All examined phase III cigarette parameters were within prescribed action limits
for this product. (Attachment 1)

SPOTTING /STAINING M

Cigarettes were collected from machine #5 using Neipmann processed tobacco and
compared with samples from machine #10 (without Neipmann reclaim) for spotting and
staining. After approximately four days ageing the control product (Mch.#10)
contained 27 spots and the test (Mch.#5) 22 spots. Samples will be evaluated again
at 30 days and at 90 days.

CONTAMINATION TESTING/STEVE ANALYSIS

Fifteen random samples of Neipmann processed cutfiller totaling 76.67 pounds were
collected for contamination testing and sieves. Rejects with filters containing 8%
plasticizer and three center glue lines were used during this sampling. Only one
piece of charcoal was found in the total 76.67 pounds sampled. This piece was an
entire charcoal plug and therefore would not pose a risk to finished cigarette
contamination. This one piece of charcoal compares with totals of 19 and 11 found
in similar size samples in prior testing of product without center line adhesive.

 

In addition to the charcoal there were over 7,600 pieces of paper found in these
same samples for an average of 101 pieces per pound. This count is approximately
19% higher than the average paper content in finished shorts. However, the
particle size of the paper is visibly smaller than paper found in shorts and
therefore is less objectionable.

Sieve analysis of these samples resulted in an average of 27.36% pass the 14 mesh.
(Attachment 2)

Samples have also been collected from product using 6% plasticizer and three center
glue lines. Results from this analysis should be available by August 23. There
are currently 38 pallets or 1140 cases of product with the standard 6% plasticizer
filters on quip at CDC. This product will be released by RJRTI R&D pending
favorable results from contamination tests. Henry Ebert will schedule a meeting
next week with necessary parties to review these results. If results are
favorable, RJRTI R&D will approve use of the Neipmann for TI brands.

oO
8
to
BH
ao
co
ra
ee
an