Aurial natriuretic factor recepiors and cyclic GMP in fibroblasts

(a) Parteculate

Contra

Nutroprusside

10) Soluble

Cyclic GMP formed ipmalimg of protean)

Netroprusside

Contrat

 

Time {run}
Fig. 4. Effect of ANF and sodium nitroprusside on particulate
and soluble guanylate cyclase activity in rat lung
fibroblasts

Time course of the basal (A). and effect of ANF (©) and
nitroprusside (@) on particulate (@) and soluble (5)
guanylate cyclase activity. Particulate and soluble fractions
were exposed to either 100nm-ANF or 100 uM-nitro-
prusside for various times at 37°C. The amount of cyclic
GMP formed was measured by radioimmunoassay. Each
point represents the mean of triplicate samples. Data
represent values obtained in one experiment that was
performed twice with similar results. s.£.m. values between
Iniplicate samples were less than 5°, of ihe mean.

 

increase two different pools of cyclic GMP in rat tung
fibroblasts, establishing that these cells are an appropriate
model to study whether these different pools of cyctic
GMP promote different physiological responses.

We recently reported that, despite a linear Scatchard
plot, cultured endothelial cells contain two ANF-binding
sites, with molecular sizes of 66 and 130 kDa (Leitman
& Murad, 1986; Leitman ez al., 1986). By comparing the
ability of atrial natriuretic peptides to compete for these

Vol. 244

10345741

PUBLICATIONS

73

two sites and elevate cyclic GMP, we have concluded
that the 130 kDa site is the ANF receptor that is coupled
to guanylate cyclase and mediates the increased cyclic
GMP formation in endothelial cells (Leiiman er al.,
1986). Rat lung fibroblasts also contain these two
binding sites with a similar proportion as that found in
endothelial (Leitman e¢ a/., 1986) and smooth muscle and
adrenal cortical (D. C, Leitman& F. Murad. unpublished
work) cells. The recent discovery by Kuno er al. (1986)
that particulate guanylate cyclase from rat lung tissue
co-purifies with an ANF-binding site that has a molecular
size of 120-130kDa suggests that one ANF reteptor
subtype and particulate guanylate cyclase may reside in
the same transmembrane glycoprotein complex: This
observation also suggests that the 130 kDa ANF-binding
site present in cultured rat lung fibrablasts is part of the
particulate guanylate cyclase complex. However, further
studies are needed to confirm this proposal.

Other investigators have used cross-linking techniques
to characterize ANF receptors in a variety of tissues. 11
has been reported that rabbit aorta possess three
ANF-binding sites with molecular sizes of 60, 70 and
120 kDa (Vandlen et af., 1985), while the adrenal gland
has two sites of 68 and 114 kDa (Meloche es al.. 1986).
These findings are consistent with our studies suggesting,
that there are multiple ANF receptors in fibroblasts and
other cel! types. Our previous studies (Leitman er ai.,
1986) provided evidence that cyclic GMP is the
intracellular mediator of the 130 kDa ANF receptor and
suggest that this receptor mediates the vascular relaxant
and hypotensive effects of ANF. It has also been
reported that ANF inhibits adenylate cyclase activity in
a number of tissues (Anand-Srivastava er a/., 1984) and
the accumulation of inositol] monophosphate in response
to nosadrenaline in rat aorta (Rapoport, 1986). However,
the ANF receptor subtype that mediates these effects and
the effects of ANF on phosphoinosito} metabolism and
calcium mobilization have not been resolved (for review.
sec Leitman & Murad, 1987). Clearly, the development
of specific ANF agonists and antagonists will be
valuable probes to identify the intracellular messengers
and physiological functions of these two ANF receptors.

The identification of a large number of receptors with
high affinity in fibroblasts makes previous ANF binding
studies with heterogenous tissues more, difficult to
interpret, since significant quantities of the ANF
receptors in the tissues reported may have been located
on the fibroblast celis. Furthermore, the contribution of
the fibroblasts to the reported effects of ANF on cyclic
GMP and guanylate cyclase activity is not known. In
future studies it will be important to use homogenous
populations of cells from tissues in order to determine the
precise ceH type that contains the ANF receptors and
responses. , .

The rote and significance of ANF receptors in rat lung,
fibroblasts is not known. We have also found specific,
high-affinity ANF receptors that mediate ah increase in
cyclic GMP accumulation in cultured human fetal and
adult lung fibroblasts (D.C. Leitman & F. Murad, un-
published work). It has been recently reported that lung
tissue contains approx. 50 times more ANF than that
found in the plasma (Sakamoto ef a/., 1986). Our results,
demonstrating that ANF binding declines dramatically
with time in Jung fibroblasts, suggest that these cells
rapidly degrade ANF. Indeed, we find that radiolabelled
ANF in the medium from cells incubated for 20 min has

026509