, Qo (_.
PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE |

Richmond, Virginia

To: . Mr. A. I. Palmer Date: January 25, 1989
From: . R. W. Dwyer
Subject: . Concentric Filter Design - Clarification of D455

Recently, FTR has shown an interest in concentric CA filters. They
believe that a filter which delivers peripheral smoke preferentially will
have an enhanced subjective impact. This belief is based on the concept
that more flavorful smoke is generated at the periphery of the combustion
zone, and this smoke travels the length of the cigarette without appreciable
mixing with the core smoke.

In an attempt to exploit this behavior, Chris Campbell and I have
developed an idea for a filter design which should increase the preferential
delivery of peripheral smoke. The problem with a conventional concentric
filter, in which both sections contain the same material, is that each
section will have a characteristic resistance to flow. This means that the
flowing smoke will partition itself between the two sections in proportion
to their resistances. Therefore, the core and peripheral smokes will mix at
the rod/filter interface as the esistance.

   
      

Our idea is to construct concentric filters with two different
materials, one j Beards ical

pressure drop. A concentric filter could be constructed such that both the
core and peripheral sections ‘have the same resistances to flow. This
insures that there would be no mixing of the peripheral and core smokes at

the filter entrance. Once the smoke enters the filter sections, the one
with the higher efficiency will remove more of its fraction of the smoke,
thereby leading to a preferential delivery from the lower efficiency
section. Thus, if the lower efficiency section is at the periphery, the
smoke emerging from the filter would have a higher concentration of
peripheral smoke.

     

 
    
    

We have several materials at hand for constructing such filters. The

lower-efficiency section can be made from CA filter tow, while the more

efficient section can be constructed from paper, CA web, or ultra-low denier
ore

polypropylene fibers. —

   
  

   
 

/yh |
cc: _ Campbell. . . de

iG. se
J. Charles
P. Gauvin
J. Myracle
J. Whidby

nN
S
N
N
ts
i
%
o