PHILIP MORRIS U.S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: D. B. Losee. Date: January 10, 1991
From: W.R. Raymond
Subject: Weekly Summary, Project 2702, Week of 1/7/90

Single-Blade Carbon Heater Evaluation:

Evaluation has begun of the first 4-blade constant contact pressure fixture. prototype
from Laser Mechanical. A manual switch has been installed for heater switching. This first
prototype fixture was manufactured from MACOR. A second PEEK fixture is expected tomorrow.
If prototype evaluations are successful, five more PEEK fixtures.will be fabricated.

Tobacco Substrate Studies:

Bright and burley dust samples are. being separated’ by mesh size (100 to <270' mesh).
These samples will be used to prepare cast sheets to determine. the effect of particle size
on sheet integrity and subjective character.

IR camera studies of glassy carbon heaters, coated with cast tobacco sheet using:
Konjac flour as the adhesive, demonstrated that adhesion was maintained at heater
temperatures up to 409 ° C. Continued modifications are being made to the binder system to
increase the temperature threshold for adhesion failure. Samples of Konjac flour have been:
submitted to Dr. Carchman for pyrolysis GC/MS analysis (300, 600 and 900° C).

MT Oriental’ strip has been cut and adhered to carbon: heater strips for baseline
subjective evaluation. Two different high flavor, high alkaloid blend dusts (ca. 200 mesh):
have been received from Flavor Development. These samples will be. sieved to separate into
discreet mesh sizes for cast sheet preparation and subjective screening.

Miscellaneous:

The Karl Fischer titrator has been set up and is operational, permitting accurate
moisture determination on heaters, cast sheets. and tobacco dust samples.

Assistance was provided to the Materials group to coat screen-printed ceramic heater
prototypes with tobacco sheet for thermal evaluation. A calcium crosslinked Konjac flour
adhesive system resisted sheet/heater delamination at temperatures >400:'° C'as measured by
thermocouple (estimated >450 ° C actual). Further studies will be conducted to determine the
surface properties of the screen-printed heaters.

A meeting was held with Bill Bell, Marshall Garrett and Bob Hale of Flavor Development
to begin. consideration of flavor system development for the RTX prototype. Based on their
initial subjective evaluation of prototypes containing Burley and Flue-Cured sheets, Bell!
and Garrett are selecting flavor ingredients for subjective screenings beginning next week.

PESLVE FOZO?