Tobacco Company

J. DONALD deBETHIZY, Ph.D.
Director, Biological Research
Research and Development

May 24, 1994 Bowman Gray Technical Center

Winston-Salem, NC 27104
910-741-2638
Fax 910-741-7472

To: Distribution

Subject: Promotion of Carr J. Smith, Ph.D.

It is with great pleasure that we announce Dr. Carr Smith’s promotion to Senior Staff Scientist in
Research & Development. Carr has been with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company since 1986,
performing a variety of critical functions for the Company. He has been in the Product Evaluation
Group since November 1992. Over the past eighteen months, his work in meeting the objectives
of the Product Evaluation Group, formerly the Biological Research Group, has been exemplary.
We are pleased to recognize Carr’s efforts with this promotion.

One of the major things that Carr has been able to accomplish in the brief time he has worked with
us is to initiate a program in the area of human cardiovascular disease. Carr has accepted the
challenge to build this program and has made significant progress to reach his goal. He has
carefully reviewed the literature and written several review articles on the relationship between
smoking and cardiovascular disease. One major conclusion is that the cardiovascular risks of
smoking and nicotine use have been grossly exaggerated by individuals outside the Company.
These articles are being submitted for publication in peer reviewed journals. Additionally, Carr
has been actively involved in studies with smokers to support product development efforts.
Carr’s depth of knowledge in human clinical studies is invaluable to all of us. He has been a
critical participant in our continuing efforts to bring scientific rigor to the question of the health
effects of environmental tobacco smoke. Carr was actively involved in responding to the EPA
and he has a key role in our current attempts to educate OSHA on the scientific facts.

In summary, Carr Smith has been and is performing at a level consistent with the duties and
responsibilities of a Senior Staff Scientist at R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. We are delighted
to have him as part of our team. We look forward to his continuing efforts to provide balance in
scientific discussions of the biological activity of tobacco smoke, particularly in the area of
cardiovascular disease. Please join us as we congratulate Carr on his achievements.

J. Don deBethizy “We work for smokers avid J. Doolittle

 

OSPE C9OTS