689604152
ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

PRODUC]

 

2. Establishing a requirement of face-to-face transactions for all sales of tobacco

products.
3. Requiring retailers to check photo identification of anyone under 27.
4. Banning all sales of tobacco products through vending machines.
5. Banning self-service displays of tobacco products except in adult-only facilities.
6. Banning the distribution of tobacco products through the mail except for sales

subject to proof of age (with subsequent FDA review to determine if minors are
obtaining tobacco products through the mail).

7. Imposing retailer compliance obligations to ensure that ail displays, advertising,
labeling, and other items conform with all applicable requirements.

The access restrictions would be coupled with an entirely new system of
enforcement to ensure that these provisions are meaningful in practice. The proposed resolution
mandates minimum federal standards for a retail licensing program: any entity that sells directly
to consumers -- whether a manufacturer, wholesaler, importer, distributor or retailer -- would
need to obtain and maintain a license. Sellers would be subjected to stiff penalties and
potentially to suspension or loss of their licenses if they do not comply with the access
restrictions. The federal government and state and local authorities would enforce these access
and licensing provisions through funding provided by annual tobacco industry payments.

The proposed resolution also contains powerful economic incentives for the states
to do their part to reduce underage tobacco use and to enforce the access restrictions. States are
required to achieve levels of compliance with the access restrictions within their borders of 75%
by the fifth year after enactment of the proposed resolution, 85% by the seventh year and 90% by
the tenth year and each year thereafter. States that fail to do so would lose a significant portion
of the health-care program funds that would otherwise be allocated to them out of the payments
to be made by the tobacco industry (which are described below). Funds withheld from states on
this basis would, in turn, be reallocated to those states that demonstrated superior “no sales to
minors” enforcement records.

Cc. “Look Back” -- Economic Surcharges on the Tobacco Industry if Underage
Use is not Greatly Reduced

The proposed resolution would give the tobacco industry powerful economic
incentives to further the goal of dramatically reducing underage tobacco use by imposing
surcharges on the industry if required reductions are not achieved. The proposed resolution’s
“look back” provision establishes steep required reductions in the level of underage tobacco use
from estimated levels over the past decade: for underage cigarette use, 30% by year 5 after

3