689604156

PRODUC]

 

ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

Companies would be subject to fines and penalties (including “Scarlet Letter”
advertising) for breaching any of these obligations. To assist with enforcement, companies must
direct their employees to report known or alleged violations to the company compliance officer,
who is in turn required to provide reports to the FDA. Finally, “whistleblowers” in the tobacco
industry will be provided with the maximum protection available under current federal statutes.

4. Nationwide Standards To Minimize Involuntary Exposure To Environmental
Tobacco Smoke

The proposed resolution mandates the first federal minimum standards governing

smoking in public places or at work (with states and localities retaining power to impose stricter

requirements). It:

. Restricts indoor smoking in “public facilities” to ventilated areas with systems
that exhaust the air directly to the outside, maintain the smoking area at “negative
pressure” compared with adjoining areas and do not recirculate the air inside the
public facility.

. Ensures that no employee may be required to enter a designated smoking area
involuntarily while smoking is occurring.

. Exempts restaurants (other than fast food restaurants) and bars, private clubs,
hotel guest rooms, casinos, bingo parlors, tobacco merchants and prisons.

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration would have authority to
enforce these restrictions.

5. Payments by the Tobacco Industry

The proposed resolution requires those companies to pay hundreds of billions of
dollars to fund federal and state enforcement efforts; to provide funds to federal, state and local
governments for health care needs and research; to provide payments that yield public benefits
and thereby resolve punitive damages claims that otherwise might be asserted in litigation based
on past conduct; and to pay for the expenses related to the administration of the Act.

A particular priority for these expenditures is to fund a variety of public and
private, non-profit efforts to discourage minors from beginning to use fobacco products and to
assist current tobacco consumers in quitting. Those programs include research, public education
campaigns, individual cessation programs, and impact grants to communities and individuals
affected by the Act.

The participating companies are required to make an aggregate $10 billion
payment on the date of the proposed resolution’s enactment. Thereafter, they are to make

7