raw products regulated by the federal government.

Second, the proposed resolution greatly expands federal regulatory authority over
the non-tobacco ingredients used in tobacco products. In addition to requiring full disclosure of
these ingredients to the FDA, the proposed resolution requires manufacturers to submit within 5
years a safety assessment for ingredients currently used, and to obtain the FDA’s preapproval for
any new ingredients. The FDA would have authority to disapprove an ingredient’s safety. In
connection with this process, manufacturers are required to have procedures for the selection,
testing, purchase, storage, and use of ingredients; to keep records regarding the foregoing; and to

- allow FDA access to such records, with protection of proprietary information.

Finally, the proposed resolution gives the FDA substantial authority over product
development by imposing a regulatory regime that would, among other things, set standards for
the reduction of certain constituents, including nicotine, to encourage the development of
“reduced-risk” tobacco products.

3. Changes in Corporate Culture

The proposed resolution requires fundamental change in the way participating
members of the tobacco industry do business in order to ensure that they comply with the spirit,
as well as the letter, of the proposed resolution.

Participating manufacturers are required to create, and to update each year, plans
to ensure compliance; to identify ways to reduce underage use of tobacco products; and to
provide internal incentives for reducing underage use and for developing products with reduced
risk.

Participating manufacturers must also implement compliance programs setting
compliance standards and procedures for employees and agents that are reasonably capable of
reducing violations. These programs must assign to specific high-level personnel the overall
responsibility for overseeing compliance; forbid delegation of substantial discretionary authority
to individuals who have shown a propensity to disregard corporate policies; establish training or
equivalent means of educating employees and agents; and institute appropriate disciplinary
measures and steps to respond to violations and prevent similar ones from recurring.

Participating manufacturers are further required to take affirmative steps to
inculcate the spirit of the new regime. They must promulgate corporate principles that express
and explain the company’s commitment to compliance, reduction of underage tobacco use, and
development of “reduced-risk” tobacco products. They must work with retail organizations on
compliance, including retailer compliance checks and financial incentives for compliance. And
they must disband industry associations that have been criticized by public health authorities, and
may only form new ones subject to strict oversight of their activities.

689604155

PRODUC]

 

 

 

ED FROM B&W WEB SITE