689604157

PRODUC]

 

ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

specified annual payments tied to volume of domestic sales; these payments will be increased to
reflect inflation and are to continue for as long as the companies continue to sell tobacco
products in this nation. (If the industry’s specified annual payment is to be reduced in a given
year as a result of a decline in volume, but the industry’s profit for that year is larger than its
1997 profits (as adjusted for inflation), the reduction in the annual payment due to the decline in
volume would be offset to the extent of 25% of the increase in profit.) At current levels of sales,
the proposed resolution requires total payments of $368.5 billion over the first 25 years and
$743.5 billion over the first 50 years (subject to credits described below in connection with
potential civil tort liability). These payments are separate from any surcharges required under the

. “look back” provision discussed above. These payments would be the joint responsibility of the

participating companies, would receive priority in any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding,
and would be the obligation only of a company’s manufacturing entity selling domestically. All
payments under the proposed resolution (including any pursuant to the “look back” provision)
are ordinary and necessary business expenses for the year of payment, and no part thereof is
either in settlement of an actual or potential liability for a fine or penalty (civil or criminal) or the
cost of a tangible or intangible asset.

The payments would be allocated among the programs and entities referred to
above. The proposed resolution contemplates that the companies would then pass the annual
payments through to consumers in order to promote the maximum reduction in underage use.

6. Preservation of Right to Sue

In addition to mandating the payments described above, the proposed resolution
preserves individuals’ right to sue the tobacco industry. In return for the enormous public health
benefits and monetary payments described above, the proposed resolution instead affords the
participating companies with protection from civil liability in the following ways.

First, the proposed resolution settles the present governmental and parens patriae
actions, and bars similar actions from being maintained in the future. It also settles the currently
pending class actions, to the extent they are not reduced to final judgment prior to enactment of
the Act. Addiction claims are likewise settled.

Second, the proposed resolution preserves access to the tort system by individuals.
Existing legal doctrine regarding the type of tort claims that can be brought, as reflected in the
Supreme Court’s Cipollone decision, is also preserved. Claims could not be maintained,
however, on a class or other aggregated basis, and could be maintained only against tobacco
manufacturing companies (and not their retailers, distributors or affiliated companies). In
addition, claimants could seek punitive damages only with respect to claims predicated upon
conduct taking place after enactment of the proposed resolution, since, as noted above, part of the
aggregate industry payments are in settlement of punitive damages claims. Finally, except with
respect to already pending actions, third-party payor (and similar) claims could be maintained
only on a subrogated basis.