689604153
ED FROM BéW WEB SITE

PRODUC

 

enactment of the proposed resolution, 50% by year 7 and 60% by year 10, with incidence
remaining at such reduced levels thereafter; for underage smokeless tobacco use, 25% by year 5,
35% by year 7 and 45% by year 10, likewise with incidence remaining at such reduced levels
thereafter. (These required reductions amount to even steeper declines from estimated current
levels of underage cigarette use.)

For any year in which these required reductions are not met, the FDA must
impose a mandatory surcharge on the participating members of the industry in question (cigarette
or smokeless tobacco) based upon an approximation of the present value of the profit the

- companies would earn over the lives of all underage consumers in excess of the required

reduction (subject to a $2 billion annual cap for the cigarette industry (as adjusted for inflation)
and a comparably derived cap for the smokeless tobacco industry). Tobacco product
manufacturers could receive a partial refund of this surcharge (up to 75%) only after paying the
assessed amount and only if they could thereafter prove to the FDA that they had fully complied
with the resolution, had taken all reasonably available measures to reduce youth tobacco usage
and had not acted to undermine the achievement of the reduction goals.

2. Regulation of the Tobacco Industry

The proposed resolution mandates new warning labels, requires the industry to

' disclose research on the health effects of its products and information about non-tobacco

ingredients, makes industry-funded cessation programs available to persons who want to quit,
and endows the FDA with extensive regulatory powers over the tobacco industry in this country.

A. Warnings and Labeling

The proposed resolution first requires a new:set of rotating warnings to be placed
on packages of tobacco products. Their content -- such as “WARNING: Smoking can kill you” -
- follow requirements in other countries, such as Canada. Their location is to be more prominent
than previous warnings: 25% of the front of cigarette packs (at the top of the pack) and 25% of
the principal display panel of smokeless tobacco products.

In addition, the proposed resolution would expand the health warning concept as
applied to advertising. For example, without limiting the FDA’s normal rulemaking authority,
the proposed resolution (1) would require that use of currently employed descriptions such as
“ow tar” and “light” be accompanied by a mandatory health disclaimer in advertisements; and
(2) prohibit the use of any health claims without review by the FDA. The FDA would also have
the corresponding power, but not the obligation, to modify advertising restrictions with respect to
tobacco products that it concludes present sufficiently reduced health risks.

B. Disclosure of Health Research and Information
To ensure access by the FDA to full information about the health effects of

4