tobacco products, the proposed resolution imposes a series of comprehensive disclosure
obligations on the tobacco industry. First, the industry is required to disclose to the FDA
previously confidential internal laboratory research relating to health, toxicity, addiction and
drug dependence, and is under a continuing obligation to disclose to the FDA all such research
generated in the future (with protection for proprietary information and applicable privileges).
Second, industry documents produced (or to be produced) in the pending Attorney General
actions and other litigations relating to smoking and health, addiction or nicotine dependency,
“safer” or “less hazardous” cigarettes and underage tobacco use and marketing will be made
available to the public in a national tobacco document depository. To the extent the industry

- continues to assert that any such documents are covered by privileges or protections, the
proposed resolution provides for a binding, fast-track procedure by which any interested person
may challenge such assertion before a specially appointed federal court. Finally, any subpoena
authority that the FDA has with respect to manufacturers of other devices would also apply to
tobacco manufacturers.

The proposed resolution also institutes new and greatly expanded disclosure
obligations with respect to non-tobacco ingredients. The tobacco industry is required to disclose
to the FDA the identity and amount of non-tobacco ingredients used in each brand. The industry
is also required to disclose ingredient information to the public to the same degree that current
federal law requires for food products (roughly, the identity of ingredients -- other than
flavorings -- in descending order of quantity).

Cc. Cessation Programs

The proposed resolution provides funding for people who want to quit using
cigarettes or smokeless tobacco. The proposed resolution authorizes the FDA to accredit
cessation programs and techniques that it determines to be effective. Those cessation programs
and techniques are then to be made available to members of the public, to be paid for by funds
provided under the proposed resolution by the tobacco industry.

D. Regulation of Tobacco Products

The proposed resolution would impose a regulatory regime to govern the
manufacturing, content and development of tobacco products in this country. This regime would
include FDA approval of the ingredients used in tobacco products and the imposition of
standards for reducing the level of certain constituents, including nicotine.

First, the proposed resolution subjects the tobacco industry to the “good
manufacturing practice” standards comparable to those applicable to other FDA-regulated
industries, but tailored specifically to tobacco products. These standards include requirements
regarding quality control systems, FDA inspections (including inspections of facilities and
certain records), and record-keeping and reporting. At the same time, the proposed resolution
makes clear that tobacco farmers face no greater regulatory burden than the producers of other

5

689604154

PRODUC

ED FROM B&W WEB SITE