industry to pay substantial economic surcharges if the required reductions are not met. In so
doing, the proposed resolution incorporates all of the restrictions in the current FDA rule, and in
many instances goes substantially beyond them.

A.

Curtailment of Advertising

With the specific consent of the tobacco companies participating in the proposed

resolution, virtually all forms of non-text tobacco advertising accessible by adolescents will be
banned. The proposed resolution would, among many other things:

1.

Prohibit use of human images and cartoon characters -- such as Joe Camel and the
Marlboro Man -- in all tobacco-product advertising.

Ban all outdoor tobacco-product advertising, including advertising in enclosed
stadia and advertising inside a retail establishment that is directed outside.

Except for advertising in adult-only facilities or adult publications, limit tobacco-
product advertising to black text on a white background.

Ban sponsorships (including concerts and sporting events) in the name, logo or
selling message of a tobacco brand.

Ban all non-tobacco merchandise (such as caps, jackets and bags) bearing the
name, logo or selling message of a tobacco brand.

Ban direct or indirect payments for tobacco product placement in movies,
television programs and video games.

Prohibit direct and indirect payments to “glamorize” tobacco use in media
appealing to minors, including live and recorded music performances.

Prohibit tobacco-product advertising on the Internet unless it is designed to be
inaccessible in or-from the United States.
Access Restrictions

The proposed resolution will also sharply restrict adolescents’ access to tobacco

products. Without preventing state and local governments from imposing stricter measures, the
proposed resolution would incorporate every access restriction embodied in the current FDA
rule, and would add additional significant restrictions. The access restrictions include:

689604151

PRODUC]

 

ED FROM

1,

B&W WEI

 

Setting a minimum age of 18 to purchase tobacco products.

2