689604158

 

PRODUC]

ED FROM B&W WEB SITE

Judgments and settlements arising from tort actions would be paid as follows: The
proposed resolution sets an annual aggregate cap equal to 33% of the industry’s annual payment
(including any reductions for volume decline or increases for inflation). Any excess judgments
or settlements above the cap in a year would roll over until the next year. Moreover, while
judgments and settlements would run against the defendant, they would give rise to an 80-cent-
on-the-dollar credit against the industry’s annual payment. Finally, to ensure that the available
funds are not allocated disproportionately, any individual judgments in excess of $1 million
would be paid at the rate of $1 million per year unless every other judgment and settlement could
first be satisfied within the annual aggregate cap. In all circumstances, however, the companies

- would remain fully responsible for costs of defense.

7. Enforcement

Finally, the proposed resolution provides for a comprehensive scheme of —
enforcement. Violations of the proposed resolution’s requirements carry civil and criminal
penalties based upon the penalty provisions of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and, where
applicable, the provisions of the United States criminal code. Special enhanced civil penalties ©
attach to violations of the obligations to disclose research about health effects and information
about the toxicity of non-tobacco ingredients -- up to ten times the penalties applicable to similar
violations by pharmaceutical companies.

In addition, terms of the proposed resolution would be embodied in state consent
decrees, giving the states concurrent enforcement powers. State enforcement could not impose
obligations or requirements beyond those imposed by the proposed resolution (except where the
proposed resolution specifically does not preempt additional state-law obligations) and would be
limited to the penalties specified in the proposed resolution and by prohibition on duplicative
penalties.

The proposed resolution is subject to the approval of the Boards of the companies
involved.