680047757

PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE

 

Dade Voters for Free Choice, Inc. February 26, 1979
~ 3-
A. Signs

Otens~rrewrequired-at~ex¢h entrance whltn-provides: public
Access -to-.the -premises-where-smoking-1s“prohibtted-and-must be
‘posted conspicuously~“tone-or-moresigns): within such premises,

sin -addition;*each counter-or-table in a restaurant or
‘cafeteria at which smoking is not permitted must contain a sign
sor placard.

There seems to be substantial discretion in the quality
of signs used and the number of signs posted in the interiors of
buildings. «n-our-eost=ealculation-we have used $40 per sign for
«the cost of-each -sign-at-the entrances and in the interiors and
a $15 per.sign for the cost of each counter or table signs for
restaurants~-and cafeterias, The-cost- includes design,. purchase
and installation costs. geha SI GSS A COS Sey, .
33055,00 or,.eign pther- publ icisectggs.
and *$ FiS797 000-4 nt !

B. Cost of partitions

 
    

      
    

ri netk
PA “ie

 

 

A fully enclosed portion of an employer's facility
must be designated as an employee smoking lounge. Management
can use discretion in the number of lounges and extent to which
existing walls can be used to provide this enclosure as well as
the quality of the required partitions. dieshave-used-e«factor
of..$1,000..t0.construct~each-fully-enclosed .area,-where existing
-physical-barriers witl“not-suffice. This cost factor may not be
sufficient if significant structural or electrical changes are
required to provide adequate circulation for the newly enclosed
lounges.

a MEER me os

sing th iby 000. costafactor,.the,calculation of
partition Gaipe.t si8 ,000 for the educational*and other
‘public settorsand "$1,976,000 for other private sectors °
reviewed.

C. Management time

 

We believe that one of the most significant elements of
the implementation cost would be the management time in supervising
changes required for compliance. This time would include:

i. reading and understanding the ordinance

ii. formulating and analyzing compliance
alternatives

£S522.00089