ATTACHMENT IV

MARKET: Totedo
MANAGER: Curtis Clingman

VAN SAMPLING PROGRAM

VAN PERSONNEL

You are to screen and hire one female distributor to work with the Van
Manager. One distributor will work with the Van Manager for each day
he is in the market. Your distributor will be responsible for
traveling with the Van Manager to each site and giving samples to
pedestrians (1 per person). The Distributor must not give samples to
anyone in cars, to anyone who appears to be under the age of 21, and
must always ask if the consumer is a smoker before offering a sample.
The Van Manager will have with him uniforms (sizes 8 - 10) and
sampling baskets.

VAN SITES

You must identify and schedule three distribution sites per day for
the van. These sites should include parks, shopping malls with
parking lots, picnic areas, concerts or other recreational facilities.
Please be certain that the van will not need a permit to sample or
play music at these sites. In essence, the Van Manager will be under
your direction for the days he's in your market. The Van will proceed
to each site, play music, and distribute samples. Written permission
must be obtained to sample on private property such as shopping malls.

In some markets, the client's local representatives have pre-planned
special events for the van to sample. In this case, there is no need
for you to schedule any additional sites for the van to sample on
special event day. (See attached Execution Calendar). For these
events, you'll need to provide the Van Manager with 2 or 3
distributors, depending on estimated attendance at the events, which
allows the van to distribute a 2 day (if using distributors)
allocation. This eliminates 2 or 3 days of sampling activity.
However, the van will still make site visits on the remaining days to
play music.

PRODUCT & PREMIUMS

In all markets, the product for the Van Manager will be with the local
client representative, The Van Manager will have all the information
needed to retrieve the product on his first day in the market, and be
responsible for it throughout the four days of executions. The Van
Manager will distribute premiums along with cigarettes in each market,
The premiums will be forwarded to you via UPS.

EL, FEO