“through in cigarette filter research.

. that lines the respiratory tracts of both mas and frogs -- the microscopic hairs

i _. FROG IS HERO OF FILTER BREAKTHROUGH

 

“A dramatic series of experiments with the lowly frog has led to a break-

Using the tiny amphibians as test animals, scientists at Lorillard Research
. Laboratories have sueceeded in developing a highly efficient filter which, for the

first time, ‘selectively screens out a specific undesirable smoke component.
~ The C&£ Cech of whiek
Frog tissue tests show |\siat- the new filter)can remove os to 90 per cent of

a@ volatile substance -- phenol -- found in’ ae Smoke. While it took several years

of collaboration by many scientific specialists to develop the improved micronite

filter, the hero of this complex research was Rana Pipens, the common grass frog.
Starting point for the scientists was the remarkable "sweeping” system

an “waals

2 called cilia. In their constant sweeping back and forth, frog cilia are identical |
o Lap Rang, blaod en eames
in structure and movement with those of frumans, though different in function.

   
  
    

Inspired by this similarity, the researchers decided to use ciliated tissues
| from the mouth and esophagus of the frog in their effort to measwre certain effects
of smoke exposure on living tissues. They observed that specks of carbon placed at
one end of a specimen of frog tissue are carried to the opposite end on mucus
/ currents propelled by cilia. .
Repeated studies clearly showed that the greater the phenol content of
smoke, the greater the depression of ciliary beating and retardation of mucus
flow. These findings strongly suggest that phenol is the major, ‘ie not the only,
cilia-depressing agent in smoke and that its removal is highly desirable.
Chemists tested a number of experimental compounds designed to "capture"
the phenol from smoke particles. One particular additive incorporated into a

filter proved to be strikingly effective in trapping the phenol. Frog tissue

- more =

ZLIZvT TO