——

FROM: TO:28@2 659 237 PAGE: 84

BURRELLE'S NewsExprese/ —_*1' Septemoer 24, 1999

Appears On Page 30 LiF 4 Ol ' 1 AY r
LaF) Page Article :NFNYODZ4, Circulation: 418,255

  

 

The Wrong Way.on Tobacco

aching the courage to try and bam, the Indeed, those hazards are spelled out

[ uite clearly and unambiguously, right on

the product’a packaging itself — and have
been for decades. Only someone awakening
‘Feom 40 years of suspended animation could
possibly be unaware that tobacco can kill
you er that nicotine can be addictive.

Aa evidence of alleged racketeering, the
governntent cites a 1988 tobacco trade-
group prese release questioning nicotine's
addictive qualities. But the evidence shows
that most Americans have ignored such doc-
uments. The fact ia that the anti-smoking
effort has been one of the moat successful
public-education campaigny in years. The
number of Americans who amoke has fallen
50 percent in the past 26 years.

ere’s also something profoundly disin-

uoua in Washington, following the early
lead uf the individual states, suing to re-
cover health costs. Ax Robert Bork noted in
an enlightening Wall Street Journal article,
the states —- thanks to increased taxes —-
make more money off the sale of tigurettes
than they've spent and are likely to spend
on medical costs.

The fact is that anti-tobacco zealots would
dearly love to outlaw the sale of the prod-
uct, but lack the political clout to do so.
Which means that, instead, they'll try to re-
caver money made from the sale of a prad-
uct that remaina perfectly legal.

Earlier this year, Attorney General Janet
Rano wold Congress that the Justice Depart-
ment “does not have an independent cause
of action” against the tobacce companies.
Now, apparently under orders from Presi-

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

gale of smoki roducta, the Clinton ad-

ministrahion has launched an 1l-con-
ceived racketeering lawsuit againat the en-
tire tohacco  indusiry. e  dustice
Department's $25-hillion assault may score
pomts on the Political Correctness front,
but will do precious little that ian’t already
being accomplished on other fronta to attack
the smoking habit.

In the first place, the lawauit ia just the
latest prosecutorial abuse of the Racketeer-
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
(RICO) law. This atatute, enacted in 1970,
was deggned for a specific purpose: to mve
prosecutors a powerful weapon to use
against mob kingpins who could not other-
wise be connected to specific violent crimes.

RICO has served a useful and highly eifec-
tive purpose in the war agsinst organized
crime — particularly. when the mob has
taken over legitimate businesses. But the
statute's broad powera have been misused
and abused for overtly political purposes,
allowing the government to confiscate alle
gedly i. egal profits from unpopular busi-
Nesses and organizations.

Thia suit marks the first tire, however,
that Washington has targeted an entire in-
dustry ay a racheteernng enterprize. It ac-
cusas the nation’s tobacco companies of cun-
spiring to misiead the public about tobacco's
health hazards and nicotine’s addictive

ualities — of undertaking, the government
charges, “an intentional, coordinated cam-
paign of fraud and deceit.”

But if the tobacco companies have heen
Jess than honeat abnut admitting that their | dent Clinton, she’s suddenly discovered one.

.Rroducis are harmful, they haven't been | But it's an action thats legally dubjous
for!
VLE it apical cts is aa

SE ee eer EE

 

i
i
1
Hl

9997078202

ww
%

4

SW