Integrated Assessment - A series of published reports which
deal with the health consequences of either direct or passive
smoking was reviewed. The first of these reports is a study
by Cox and Wichelow of Cambridge, England, published in the
Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health. In this re-
port, these authors examined carbon monoxide (CO) levels in
the breath of smokers and non-smokers and attempt to equate
that with the effect of domestic heating systems. The bottom
line was that in many people, both smokers and non-smokers,
the risk of CO which is generated by domestic heating systems
can be much greater than being in a room with a heavy smoker.
They concluded that poor ventilation is a very important fac-
tor in exacerbating the risk for both smokers and non-
smokers.

The second study, conducted by Rehm et al. of the University
of Kentucky Medical Center at Lexington, examined small air-
ways disease in smokers who consume alcohol in moderate
amounts. These authors report that in the entire group of
125 smokers that they examined, only one out of 18 who
abstained from alcohol had normal pulmonary function. This
is to be compared with 32 of 107 who consumed alcohol in
moderate amounts. The authors conclude that these data
support the hypothesis that ethanol or alcohol suppresses
inflammatory responses to cigarette smoke.

In a study published by Wu et al. (University of Southern
California), Journal of the National Cancer Institute smoking
and other risk factors were examined for Lung cancer in
women. The authors report that among non-smokers slightly
elevated relative risks (RR) for adenocarcinoma were observed
for passive smoking exposure from spouses. The found also
that childhood pneumonia and childhood exposure to coalburn-
ing added additional risks for adenocarcinoma. Interesting-
ly, for both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma,
increased risks were found to be associated with a decreased
intake of beta-carotene foods but not for the total vitamin A
foods and vitamin supplements. Based on our examination of
these results, we conclude that the relative risk numbers
obtained for increased adenocarcinoma subsequent to passive
smoke exposure in spouses, namely 1.2, cannot be considered
to be of high statistical significance based on the small
size of the population.

 

The next study by Garland et al. (University of California,
San Diego) which deals with the effect of passive smoking on
ischemic heart disease mortality of non-smokers was published
in the American Journal of Epidemiology. The authors con-
clude that the mortality attributable to ischemic heart
disease as a result of exposure of wives to their husbands
passive smoke is quite high. In fact, after adjustment for
differences in risk factors for heart disease, the relative
risk for death from ischemic heart disease in non-smoking
women married to current or former smokers, was calculated by
these authors to be 14.9.

99Z2T TOITS

-3-