Scientific Affairs

Pesticides - Data on a biocide, Biosperse 240°, were reviewed
for potential adverse health effects. The biocide,
2,2-dibromo-3-nitropropionamide, has been postulated by the
manufacturer to degrade to methyl bromide, ethyl bromide,
hydrogen cyanide, and nitric oxide. The manufacturer has
sent a letter stating that these products are not formed and
will forward a new material safety data sheet. Approval to
use this biocide in the enclosed water cooling system at
Tobaccoville has been approved.

ITEMS FOR GENERAL INTEREST TO R&D:

Scientific Affairs

General - An account to order reprints has been established
at Bowman Gray's School of Medicine Library. All requests
should be addressed to Mr. Sprinkle and it should be stated
that they are for the Biochemical/Biobehavioral Group.

We are attempting to order the entire set of the Code of
Federal Regulations. This will be updated yearly in order to
have immediate access to regulatory guidelines of additives,
pesticides, and other chemicals of interest.

Smoking and Health

Environmental Tobacco Smoke ~ Dr. Charles Nystrom attended
the 78th Annual Meeting of the Air Pollution Control
Association (APCA) in Detroit, June 16-21. A number of
papers dealt directly with the question of the impact of
environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) on indoor air quality.
APCA adopted Indoor Air Quality as one of its three major
areas of emphasis for 1986.

Dr. Nystrom attended planning sessions for the TT7 Committee
on Indoor Air Quality. At this meeting, he offered to pro-
vide speakers on the characterization of ETS in indoor air.
He also suggested that Dr. Colucci would be a potential
speaker on the health assessments of factors in indoor air
quality.

Of particular interest was a study conducted by PA which
involved the analytical and sampling methodology for charac-
terization of polynuclear aromatic compounds in indoor air.
A total of 16 polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) were analyzed
in indoor and outdoor air samples. Ten homes were studied
and ineluded homes with and without smoking occupants, with
and without woodburning fireplaces in use, and with and with-
out gas heat and appliances. Both cigarette smoking and the
presence of gas heat and appliances affected the PAH
concentrations significantly. In contrast, the use of wood-
burning fireplaces was not of significant influence.

ol
=
| eal
Ss
e
Ny
nv
wn