Of course, a major reason for liking or rejecting a cigarette product is
taste. It should not be found strong or harsh; mildness igs desirable. This
is not offered as a new discovery, but as reassurance that this technique
starts by confirming some information which has been re~affirmed regularly
over the years by countless pieces of research.

Beyond that, however, this analysis demonstrates clearly (if not for the
first time), the importance of another attribute that is next in importance:

to consumers: that the preferred cigarette is the one that leaves the mouth
moist, not dry.

We do not know whether this quality is physical or psychological. Since all
these products were tested blind, advertising claims played no part in favoring
one product or the other of a pair.

R&D: should be asked to pursue work in the areas of humectants, emollients, and

any other additions or processes that can contribute to the feeling of “leaving
the mouth moist", Salivating agents might be considered.

Marketing (aided by Marketing Research) should work in the area of developing
copy claims to support this idea. The Concept seems to be untapped at present.

NOTE: This key finding of the importance of moisture in the mouth is consistent
with the results of a joint study by PM-USA and PM~International circulated last
year which said "This cigarette leaves your mouth moist -~ not dry — after
smoking is a good thing to say in advertising and a good thing to deliver to the
smoker " (p. 9). That study showed the correlation of "left mouth moist" with
preference was .59 for full flavor smokers, .65 for hi-fi's and .55 for charcoal
smokers.

Tabulations such as attached to this document should be included in all product
test reports in the future. The cost of tabulation can be paid for by the
savings. found by discontinuing the following tables currently routinely run for
us by HTI and scarcely ever used:

Table 8A: Ratings Among Preferrers By Sex - Male
8B: Ratings Among Preferrers by Sex - Female
8C: Ratings Under Age 35
8D: Ratings Age 35 +
8E: Rating - By Heavy Smokers
8F: Rating - Moderate Smokers
8G: Rating - Light Smokers
19; Whether Test Cigarette Tasted Different from Average
20: If "Yes" to. 19 ~ why

1001857065