pro

e +

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.

CONFIDENTIAL INTER -OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

To:

From:

Subject:

 

100 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y..10017

Mr. R. S. Fountaine Date: June 23, 1971

Al Udow

A New Method of Qualitative Product Test Analysis

Background

The technique of blind product testing used for many years at Philip Morriis makes
several assumptions which may not be valid with respect to evaluating consumer
qualitative responses to test cigarettes.

The following quote is from a memo by E. J. Gray (10/29/69) who, under J. E. Lincoln,
developed the current technique:

One assumption that is made either explicitly or implied is that the
volume of response indicates the magnitude of a qualitative difference.
In other words, the higher the percentage of given responses, the
greater we assume the quality to be ...,
The second assumption that seems to exist is a cause and effect
assumption. Granted, we rarely make the mistake of saying "Blend B
lost the test because it was too strong", the implication is usually
present. In other words, "Blend B. lost the test", Later we say "Blend
B was considerably stronger than Blend A". I feel that our readers

put these two together.

Since the time that this issue was raised, we have tried two ways of settling the
question. The present document is submitted as the third, and possibly definitive
answer to the question, with new insights into understanding reasons for preference
of cigarettes, with implied new directions. for interpreting blind product test
reports and new directions for R&D efforts.

ee en EN

1. This document spells out in detail, and gives five examples of a new technique
that should be added to: the analytic devices currently used in evaluating blind
product tests. It should be given more weight in interpretation (because of
greater sensitivity) than the current reporting of "qualitative evaluation",

2. The data used for this analysis should be drawn from the 18 point check list
which smokers are asked to report on after testing each product, rather than the
open ends. The former provides fuller data on larger bases, the latter gives
some of the same kind of information but on much smaller bases.

3. Certain key conclusions can be generalized from the data on ten different

Products reported here, and they apply to all the groups of smokers covered,
(including smokers of Marliboro 85's, Marlboro 100's, other filters and hi-fi's),

1001857064