PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. INTEROFFICE
120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017

DATE: March 31, 1986

 

SUBJECT: New York City Task Force

 

There is widespread consensus that Mayor Koch's: anti-smoking p:

roposal ,
together with the clear bias that will emanate: from the Califano Camittee, is.

of serious national concern and has mitiple negative implications for our
cause,

We anticipate a lengthy, difficult, potentially acrimonious campaign to: defeat
this anti-smoking measure.

In order to accomplish this, we are assembling a special New York City Task
Force, which will work full time on this: important effort for at least the
next 90 days. The Task Force will be situated in the large ninth floor
conference room and will serve as the nerve: center of the company's effort to:
defeat the Mayor's anti-smoking efforts. The Task Force will consist of

professional and clerical personnel, drawn. from throughout the corporation for

temporary duty. The Task Force will. operate: in liaison with the PM U.S.A.
Corporate Affairs Department to ensure a coordinated, correct approach.

We very much need your assistance in forming this special Task Force. Because
most of the activities of the Task Force center on coordination and logistics
between myriad disciplines andi activities, we believe the Task Force Leader
should be an individual with such experience.

Jeannine Dowling"s name immediately comes to mind. Her successful experience
with two World Fairs: and! with her current duties indicate she is the best
choice.

Consequently, we would’ respectfully request that Ms. Dowling be temporarily
assigned to PM U.S.A. Corporate: Affairs, for a period of 90 days, in order to
be the Task Force Leader of the New York City Task Force. All salary and
expenses will be assumed by PM! U.S.A. for the assignment period.

If you: agree, we would’ like: to have the Task Force leader in place by April 2,
1986.

Many thanks.
RECEIVED
cc: H. Maxwell |
a: A met apr 11888
F

S285202

epos:

. E. Resnik JOHN A. MURPHY.