Caffeine - 1

Double-Blind Versus Deceptive Administration
of Placebo Caffeine

Lynne J. Weixel Irving Kirsch
University of Connecticut

Unlike double-blind pharmacological studies, in which subjects
are informed that they will either receive a drug or a placebo,
patients in nonresearch settings are told that they are receiving
medication. Nevertheless, data from double-blind research are used to
evaluate drugs for clinical administration. Thus, it is tacitly
assumed that placebo and drug effects obtained in double-blind
conditions are comparable to those obtained in clinical practice.

The present study was designed to investigate two aspects of
expectancy: (1) the subjective probability of having consumed caffeine
and (2) the amount of caffeine that subjects thought they may have
been consumed. Experimental subjects were either led to believe that
they were consuming caffeine (deceptive placebo administration) or
that they might or might not be receiving caffeine (double-blind
placebo administration). In addition, a no-beverage control group
provided a baseline against which placebo effects could be evaluated.
We hypothesized larger placebo effects with deceptive administration
than with double-blind administration. Also, on the basis of Kirsch's
(1985) response expectancy theory, we hypothesized a quadratic effect
as a function of dose. Specifically, we expected to obtain larger
placebo effects at moderate dosages than at small or extreme levels.

Method

In experimental conditions, a single cup of decaffeinated coffee
was brewed in the subject's presence. Apparent dose was manipulated
by using 1, 2, 3, 5, or 8 heaping tablespoons of coffee in preparing
the beverage. In double-blind administration conditions the coffee
was prepared from one of two cans with labels marked "X" and "Y"
respectively. A coin was tossed to determine the can from which the
coffee was selected. Neither subject nor experimenter was aware that
both cans contained decaffeinated coffee. In deceptive administration
conditions the coffee was prepared from a single can bearing the label
of a well-known brand of caffeinated coffee. Control subjects were
asked to wait for twenty minutes.

Before and after beverage consumption, an experimenter who was
unaware of group assignment assessed subjects self-reported mood
(alertness, relaxation, and tension), behavior (digit span, symbol
substitution, reaction time, and rotor pursuit), and physiologic
function (pulse rate and blood pressure). During pre-placebo
assessment, subjects were asked to predict the effect of coffee on the
each of the subjective feelings assessed by the mood scale and also to
predict the effect of coffee on each of the behavioral measures.
Following post-placebo assessment of dependent variables, subjects
were asked to estimate the likelihood that the coffee they had
consumed was caffeinated.

Results

Between group differences in mood, behavior, and physiological
function were analyzed by means of orthogonal comparisons of mean
residual change scores. Only deceptive administration produced a
significant increase in pulse rate (Figure 1). Significant

oasscEe2ode