Forsythe . -2- August 8, 1983

Competitive Response - Liggett, in addition to a two-pack
generic tape-on, WaS running an Eve Lights stationery pro-
motion. According to the tobacco manager, RJR was aware of
the VICEROY offer (and reportedly concerned by the volume
increase), but there was no response from them or any other
competitor. :

Value Concept - At the time of the visit to the commissary,
VICEROY had a lower carton price than generics but had an
equivalent per stick price.

# Of Price Per Price Per
Packs/Carton Carton Stick
VICEROY 10 2.78 .01390
Generics 12* 3.35 .01396

*Due to two packs taped on to cartons.

VICEROY's superior sales performance vis-a-vis generics was
due, we believe, to 1) the added value of the VICEROY name
and 2) the greater meaning attached to a reduced price offer
on a carton rather than to a two-pack add-on offer.

The "value for money" concept, represented by Century, had
yet to make an impact; Century was about to be dropped for
lack of sales, with volume averaging far below one case per
week. The tobacco manager put part of the blame on RJR's
decision to place Century in the commissary before any
domestic advertising could support it. As opposed to
VICEROY, Century was an unknown product selling at the same
carton price as all other brands.

Display - Two 100-carton floor displays were located next

to generic cigarettes across from the ID desk and shopping
cart depot. The location was ideal in that it was virtually
impossible for the consumer to ignore.

Of the approximately 500 cartons of VICEROY purchased on July
29, about 20 came from the shelf; all others came from the
display.

 

Retail Orders - The tobacco manager claimed that his ordering
pattérn was unaffected by price increases or by the excise
tax increase of January, 1983. As a rule of thumb, any

style not selling one case per week would be considered for
removal from distribution. Styles about to be dropped were
Century, Bright and Marlboro Menthol.

Miscommunication - In addition to $1.50 VPR's on cartons of
VICEROY, $1.00 coupons are being offered to consumers. The
Brand Group's desire to test a $1.50 VPR was interpreted by
the field as a mandate to put all additional styles possible

1
a
S
©
a
om
ha
(da