A.G. Forsythe - -3- August 8, 1983

in Leonard Wood. This was accomplished by offering a $2.50/
carton reduction for 90 days. The store manager said that
this arrangement was negotiable after he sells out the next
40 cases of VICEROY, due to arrive August 2. It is to be
expected that this stock would be sold out during the week —
of August 8. -

 

-9. Other Observations - While not related directly to this test,

the following observations were made during the Ft. Leonard
Wood visit.

. According to A.R. Ballantine, the B&W Field Rep for
Ft. Leonard Wood, the major advantage of the VPR is
its role as a "silent salesman", effective when no
Salesperson is around. From our perspective, the
advantages of a coupon are its use as a vehicle for
personal interaction between salesperson and consumer,
the absence of upfront cost and the reduction of
paperwork.

. There was resistance by this retailer towards any
VPR not in increments of $1.00. A coupon offer was
not viewed in the same manner.

. No menthol styles of BARCLAY are currently being
offered in the commissary and several customers were
asking for them during this visit. The idea of a
$2.00 VPR to get all styles of BARCLAY (including
menthol) in the store was very well received by the
tobacco manager.

 

CONCLUSIONS/NEXT STEPS

Although a $2.50 price reduction is not part of the price test
design, it is recommended that it be continued until the August 2
stock is depleted. First, dropping the coupon at this point would * .
damage the integrity of B&W and the rapport that the Rep has built 5
at this base. Second, the tobacco manager has threatened to drop ‘dd.
all three styles of VICEROY in the commissary if the offer were to *:
be reduced now.

 

Once the August 2 stock is sold out, this base should be folded
back into the test design by dropping the coupon and offering just
the $1.50 VPR. This will give us some information of price
elasticities - the number of style offerings will remain unchanged
and we can see how a change from $2.50 off to $1.50 off affects

sales.
Pos
Fu Jom

S. F. Moss
SFM:dsf oo.

ozsbo00ss