categorization by the U.S. National Toxicology Program, not as a
known human carcinogen, but rather as a substance “which may
reasonably be anticipated to be a human carcinogen", reflects the
uncertainties in attribution of causation which are inherent in
real-world exposure scenarios.

Since the carcinogenic activity of Bla]P in experimental animais
was first described over 50 years ago, advances in analytical
chemistry have revealed its ubiquitous presence in the human
environment. The investigation of the potential contribution of
such B[a]P exposure to human health risks has therefore been the
subject of literally hundreds of scientific studies, including
the recent work of Denissenko and colleagues. While their study
did not specifically address smoking or the biclogical effects of
smoke, a substantial body of prior work has, in fact, directly
investigated the potential contribution of BlalP to these
effects.

Cigarette smoke is neither a unique nor substantial source of
benzoflalpyrene exposure.

While diet is the overwhelmingly predominant source of human
Bila]P exposure, the reported presence of small amounts of BlaliP
in cigarette smoke indicates that active smoking constitutes a
minor additional source of exposure in some individuais. An
analysis of commerciaily-produced filter cigarettes conducted by
the Oak Ridge National Laboratory reported yields on the order of
10 nanograms (0.010 microgram, or one Rhundred-millionth of a
gram} BlalP per cigarette. The sbatementi by Denissenko and
colleagues that Bia]lP "...occurs in amounts of 20 to 40 nanograms
per cigarette..." was not referenced, but appears to have been
taken from an early analysis of an unfiltered cigarette bearing
little resemblance to the majority of contemporary cigarettes.

A substantial number of human studies have investigated the
eccurrence of DNA adducts in tumor target tissue (e.g. lung} or
in surrogate tissues (e.g. peripheral blood cells) as an approach
to identifying environmental exposures associated with adduct
formation (molecular epidemiology). Some of these studies have
claimed an association between smoking and adduct formation.
However, a very substantial number of recent and comprehensive
studies have found no association whatscever between adducts and
smoking status or smoking rate. Various authors have cited the
overwhelming effect of dictary BlalP intake, as well as
interindividual differences in metabolic activation or
detoxification pathways, as confounding variables which obscure
detection of BlalP adducts from minuscule levels of exposure such
as may be associated with smoking.

£L9PO6S8