preferentially form covalent adducts at guanine residues at many
sites (i.e. codons 154, 157, 175, 248, 267, 273 and 282} within
the P53 gene of two types of cultured human cells. However, the
authors focused on only three of these in vitro adduct binding
sites which corresponded to sites of Frequent occurrence of
_tmutations {so-called ‘hotspets’) within human lung P52. This
comparison between sites of DNA adduction and sites of tumor—
associated mutations at the level of individual codons was
achieved using a novel lLigation-mediated polymerase chain
reaction ({LMPCR) method.

The authors compared their observed BPDE binding sites in
cultured cells to a selected portion of the avallable library of
P53 mutations, i.é¢., to mutation spectra from tumors of reported
smokers. Based upon the coincidence of 3 cut of 7 BPDE adduction
sites in cell cultures and 32 of 19 sites of P43 mutation in lung
tumors, the authors hypothesized that Bla]P from cigarette smoke
accounts for those P53 mutations. However, the anthors offered
this conclusion despite a lack of such coincidence at 5 other
mutation sites in lung tumor P53 (Authors' Figures 1, 2 & 3}.
Furthermore, the authors acknowledge that certain other
polycyclic hydrocarbons, as well as oxidative damage, may also
induce similar mutations. A survey of other studies in this
field reveals that a number of other environmental agents, e.g.
nitroarenes, O- and N- centered radicals, carbonyls and
heterocyclic amines, have also been associated with a high
aAncidence of G to T transversion mutations of P53 similar to
those attributed to Bla]P. Clearly, then, the new study does not
provide compelling evidence that B[a]P induces a unique or
distinctive effect, particularly as it is typically encountered
in the environment, i.¢. as aA Minor constituent of complex
mixtures resulting from combustion processes.

The stated conclusions of Denissenko et al.

The authors’ choice of words in concluding that their observation
of *...[tihe coincidence of mutational hotspots and adduct
hotspots suggests that benzo[a]pyrene metabolites or
structuraily-related compounds are invoived in transformation of
human lung tissue* [emphasis added] is revealing. Proof of Bla}P
causation in smokers’ tumors is neither claimed in this phrasing
nor justified by the data. Denissenko and colleagues state in
the abstract of their study an opinion that * [t]hese results
provide a direct etiological iink between a defined chemical
carcinogen and human cancer". A similar statement is made in the
closing line of the article, i.e., "Our study thus provides a
Givect link between a defined cigarette smoke carcinogen and
human cancer mutations." [emphasis added]. The authors have
carefully phrased these statements to implicate smoking while
avoiding any direct claim that their study provides proof of a
causal relationship between BfalP in smoke and human lung cancer.

Li9bO6sg

2