This conscious avoidance of such a claim is quite appropriate
since such a statement is clearly not justified by the data
presented in the paper, and is contrary to many recent findings
discussed briefly below. However, many press accounts were led
to imply or to state explicitly that the paper provided
scientific proof of causation regarding smoking and lung cancer.
These overstatements are consistent with their lay authors’
failure to understand the underlying scientific principles
communicated in the subtleties of phrasing employed by Denissenko
et al.

Benzofalpyrene, a ubiquitous environmental presence.

Benzo[alpyrene is one of a large family of polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons (PAH) known to occur as ubiquitous products of
combustion processes, including those which occur naturally, as
well ag in association with human transportation, heating,
occupational exposures, cooking, and smoking. This lack of
smoking specificity is alone sufficient to justify a conservative
interpretation of the relevance of the new study. Many studies
from around the world have identified the diet as the predominant
source of human Bfa]P exposure, accounting for 90% or more of
such exposure, Quantitatively, dietary exposures are typically
on the order of 1-10 micrograms Bla] P per day. Airborne sources,
including ambient air and occupational exposures, account for a
relatively smaller quantity of BlalP exposure, except among
individuals such as coke oven workers, whe may be chronically
exposed to very substanhial quantities in heavily-polluted
industrial atmospheres.

Bla]P from all sources is extensively metabolized within the body
to over 20 metabolites and conjugation products, most of which
are excreted as detoxification products. However, 4 minor
portion of ingested or inhaled Bla] P may be metabolized to a
specific reactive and toxic BPDE which is capable of reacting
with DNA and other biomolecules. While mammals have very
efficient DNA repair mechanism to enable them te cope with a
diversity of environmental substances such as Blal]P, it is
currently believed that the cumulative effects of such substances
from all sources may contribute to human risks for the
development of some cancers. Consistent with this environmental
hypothesis are many laboratory studies which have shown that,
under appropriate conditions, substances such as BlalP mey induce
DNA adducts and mutations in experimental cells and tumors in
animals.

Since human exposures to Bla]P invariably occur in a complex
milieu of concurrent exposures to many other substances, it is
impossible to unequivocally ascribe it a causative role even in
instances of extreme industrial exposures. The IARC
classification of BlalP as a “probable* human carcinogen, and its

3

219 "0628