e@ CAMEL (Continued)

- Fourth Quarter POS - This material is in production and will deliver to
the field in accordance with the schedule required for the November 3

DTS.

-° 1987 Permanent POS - Nine items produced in 1986 are being rerun with
updates in warning statements, quarter dates, and commodity codes.
Proofing ard production are underway.

- 1987 Vending POS - Mechanicals for six items were provided to Purchasing
this week. Stats are routing for approvals.

@ CENTURY

- September 7 Co-op and Solo FSI - Co-op and solo were dropped on
schedule.

- October 12 Co-op and Solo FSI's - The final proof has been approved and
the inserts are beina printed with delivery te newspapers scheduled fcr
September 29. The total circulation will be 32.6MM plus 75M for the
state of Nebraska.

- November 30 Co-op - The market list has been finalized to a one market
test. It will be an 800 number for requesting cash refunds. The
art/mechanical is now due September 29.

- November Savings Segment Program - The 1.7MM on-carton coupons for
November have been changed to the 5" coupon with acetate back. The
revised proof was reviewed and approved September 11.

e@ DORAL

- POS Reorder - The reorder of 75M shelf strips with decal was in
production week of September 8. Delivery to Lentz is scheduled for the

last week in September.

- VPR Sticker - Comps using the "All Promo Costs..." copy have been
prepared by the supplier for the 25¢ VPR sticker and have been sent to
the Tax Department for review. A new comp is due September 15 on the
VPR with a toll free number.

e@ MORE

- MORE September 28th Co-op Network Mail - The final proof was reviewed
and approved on Wednesday, August 6. This item was on press week of
August 25. Total circulation will be 42.4MM featuring a B1G1F and

$1.50/carton coupon.

- MORE October 19th Co-op FSI - This FSI will feature a BIGIF coupon and a
$1.50/carton offer with a total circulation of 17.2MM. The Brand will
aiso test a BIGIF versus a Free Pack coupon in the Seattle, WA division.
The purchase reauisition and market list have been approved. All
mechanicals and art have been turned over to Purchasing. The first
proof was reviewed on Thursday, Aucust 21. A second proof was reviewed

and accepted on Thursday, August 28.

 

2£7OL 09606