e SALEM

e VANTAGE

SALEM Fourth Quarter POS (General Market) - The purchase order has been
approved and has been turned over to Purchasing along with the art and

mechanicals. The stats are routing for approval. SALEM is primary in

four sales areas. SALEM will also produce summer visuals for five sales
regions. The purchase requisition has been approved and turned over to
Purchasing. The summer visuals will be reprints of second quarter, 1985
POS with warning statement updates. The first proofs were reviewed on
Thursday, September 4. The second set of proofs were reviewed and
accepted on Thursday, September 11, 1986.

SALEM Fourth Quarter POS (Rlack Market) - The purchase requisition has
been approved and turned over to Purchasing along with the art and
mechanicals. The stats are routing for approval. SALEM is primary in
all black markets which will require the production of five pieces. The
brand will also produce summer visuals for five sales regions. The art
and mechanicals for the black summer visuals have been turned over to
Purchasing, ag well as the purchase requisition. The first proofs are
to be reviewed the week of September 15.

SALEM Fourth Quarter POS (Hispanic Market) - The purchase requisition
has been approved and has been turned over to Purchasing along with the
art and mechanicals. The stats are routing for approval. SALEM is
secondary in the Hispanic market which will require the production of
three pieces. We will also produce POS with summer visuals for five
sales regions. These items will be reprints from third quarter POS.
The purchase requisition for the reprints has been approved and turned
over to Purchasing. The first proofs are to be reviewed the week of
September 15.

SALEM Superclock Transparency - The purchase requisition has been
approved and released to Purchasing. Art and mechanical were turred
over to Purchasing on August 6. The stats are routing for approval.
The brand has also decided to produce summer visuals for the five sales
regions outlined above. The purchase requisition has been approved and
turned over to Purchasing. This item will be a reprint from second
quarter 1985 with warning statement changes. This first proof was
reviewed on Tuesday, September 2; changes were noted. A second proof
was reviewed and accepted on Thursday, September 11.

SALEM POP Refurbishing Kit Decal - Purchasing reovisition has been
approved and has been turned over to Purchasing along with the art and
mechanical. The stats have been approved. The first proof was reviewed
on Wednesday, September 3, with changes noted. A second proof is
scheduled to be reviewed the week of September 15.

VANTAGE Scoreboard Center is being executed by Group III Promotions.

The Scoreboard Center will be taken to 24 PGA Tournaments. The new
tent/activity materials were executed at the B. C. Open in Endicott, New
York, September 4-7. At the event, 4,000 VANTAGE samples and 1,549
sweepstakes brochures were distributed. Next event is the Bank of
Boston Classic September 11-14.

67GL 09606