e Other (Continued)

1986 Vending Inserts - The four WINSTON items are available for ordering
by Sales. CAMEL art/mechanicals were received on 9/8.

Supplier presentations for 1987 POS are now complete. Submissions will :
be presented to A. L. Barnett on 9/24.

Summer Resort - Currently running in 18 sales divisions. The last
material shipment was delivered 8/4. The last car showing was held
August 28-30 in the South Jersey Division. All 16 car showings have
taken place. Thirteen of these showings participated in the sweepstakes
program. Drawings, notification letters and fulfillment are being
handled by The Russell Agency. Prizes are mailed within 4-6 weeks after
drawings are held. Entry form statistics were sent to Texas to be added
to our Direct Marketing List.

National Association of Convenience Stores (NACS) - The fourteen POS
items have been crdered for placement in the RJRT section of the RJR
Nabisco booth. The NACS logo, to be placed on nine of the items, has
been provided to Purchasing for delivery no later than 10/17. Samples
of each POS item will be shipped to T. Byrre Company the week of 9/15
for preplanning of placement in the booth.

Arsercard Security Procedures - The first draft for Ansercard Security
Procedures has been routed to Lane Services and Corporate Security for
their review and comments. The final guidelines will be published the
week of September 15.

BRANDS

e CAMEL

CAMEL GT Program - All materials and gratis are crdered for the New
York 500 CAMEL GT Race on September 20-21.

Package Outlet Promotions (August 1 - December 31) - Mechanicals for the
seven items to be produced for the November Six-pack Offer and for the
December 2-Free Lighters Offer were provided to Purchasing on

September 4. The six-pack packaging was produced earlier and the
lighter card is in production. November POS materials are scheduled to
deliver to Lentz by September 30 and December materials deliverina by
November 17.

September 21 FSI - These $2/carton coupons have delivered to newspapers
for insertions. Samples will be routed week of September 15.

October 26 FSI - Proofing is underway on the various visual concepts of
this couponing effort. Second proofs of the various rub-off versions
have been reviewed with minor color corrections requested. The basic,
control, and solo versions are scheduled for a second proofing week of
Séptember 15. (Changes as requested in the layout of the basic and solo
versions will be reflected in the second proof.) The “ansercard"
concept as provided by the supplier was approved and will also be
available for proofing week of September 15.

SOL 0989S