e MORE (Continued)

- MORE October Black Magazine Pop-up - This pop-up will feature a B1GIF
coupon and a $2.00/carton offer, with a total circulation of 2.8MM in
Essence and Ebony. Stats have been routed and are approved.

- MORE Fourth Quarter POS - The purchase requisition has been turned over
to Purchasing. The Smal] PPD Card will be a reprint of the first
quarter card with warning statement. and copyright line updates.

- MORE Ebony Fashion Fair - The purchase order has been approved and
turned over to Purchasing to refurbish 36 RITZ sampling trays to MORE
sampling trays featuring "Dare To Be MORE" copy.

0 NO

- Co-op FSI (October 5) - Production is on schedule to drop 21,767M
circulation on October 5. The ad features a B1G1F pack coupon and a
$2.00/carton coupon. This FSI has been assianed "T" codes by Media
division to research markets.

e RITZ

- September 14 FSI (Free Lighter Offer) - All elements are in place for
fulfillment of this offer. Circulation: 35,323M.

- October 20 Donnelley Direct Mail - These $2/carton store coupons are
currently being inserted into the cooperative mailing envelopes at
Donnelley. Insertion should be completed late September.

- Toll-Free Black ROP (August 20 Test) - The 4-pack mailer has delivered
to Lane Services. The Auvqust toll-free test has been completed. The
B3G3F blind bounceback will deliver to Lane Services on September 15.
A total of 323 responses were received for the August test.

- Toll-Free Black (Ebony) Magazine Offer (Test) - The four free packs with
blind bounceback via toll-free number in the Maryland circulation of
Ebony's December issue is scheduled. Mailers and coupons were produced
along with the August 20 ROP test and the same toll-free number will
also be used.

- In-Store Couponing Wave Il (September 29) - The $2.50/carton handouts
with mail-in offer for four $1.50/carton bouncebacks scheduled for Wave
II have shipped to the sampling supplier. Art and mechanical for the
bounceback self-mailer has been provided to the supplier for production
and proofs are to be available for review on September 15.

- Fourth Quarter Hispanic POS - This card is in production and should ship
to the field early October for the November 3 DTS.

B°GL O9S05