72-

between the number of cigarettes smoked daily and tar-nicotine
yield. It was also found that smokers of low-yield brands
compensated by altering their puffing and inhalation patterns.
However, their serum thiocyanate levels remained much higher
than for nonsmokers, indicating smokers' disease risk may not
be appreciably reduced by using low-yield cigarettes.

Folsom commented that contrary to the claims of cigarette
advertisements, switching to low-yield brands is not an
acceptable alternative to total cessation.

In his report Vinod Jivrajka, Lexington, KY, discussed his
technique for studying the effects of cigarette smoking on the
electrical stability of the heart muscle.

In his study, electrode catheters were inserted into 22 smokers
with coronary artery disease (ages 32-70). Measurements of
repetitive ventricular response (an indicator of sudden
coronary death) were made before and within 15 minutes of
smoking one cigarette at the rate of four puffs per minute for
a total of 10 puffs.

It was found that smoking significantly increased the incidence
of repetitive ventricular response and decreased the time in
which the heart muscle returned to normal.

C.V.R. Reddy, Brooklyn, NY, studied the effects of cigarette
smoking on coronary blood flow in coronary artery disease. His
subjects were chronic smokers (ages 41-67) who had no evidence
of heart failure, obstructive airway disease, kidney or liver
disease or other cardiac problems. After various control
tests, the subjects were stressed on a treadmill until the
onset of angina. The subjects were then given a rest period,
and each smoked a low-yield cigarette (4mg tar, 0.4mg
nicotine). After more measurements and blood samples were
made, the subjects were paced a second time; until angina set
in, and again, additional tests were made.

Reddy's findings indicated that the overall effect of smoking
one cigarette was a decrease in coronary vascular reserve so
that angina developed sooner at lower Pacing rates.

William Friedewald, Bethesda, Maryland, in speaking about the
"powerful" and "compelling" evidence that establishes cigarette
smoking as a risk factor in coronary disease, claimed that
MRFIT showed a lower mortality in the men who stopped smoking.

8T42TOSTO2

OTHER STUDIES

Thomas Pearson, Baltimore, discussed a study to determine
whether family history of sudden, unexpected death could