1002

aosence of serum. Given such a demonstrable serum
effect on IL 2 production, and the knowledge that ¢ither
a high cell density or low concentrations of protein are
necessary lo prevent adsorptive loss cf [L 2. It appeared
hat the information was available to effect a maximal
anut-T3-st\mulated proliferative response In serum-free
medium. The optimal system would hecessarily entall
culturing the celis at 1 x 10° cells/ml, include IL. 2 sup-
pited exogenously in order to supplement the inadequate
in situ production, 1.0 4M of a protective protein to ob-
viate any IL 2 adsorption. and Tf to provide the tron
necessary for S phase transit. The results derived from
12 separate experiments are assembled tn Figure 5. Re-
markably, IL 2 supplementation of cultures containing
BSA and Ti as the only protein additives reconstituted
completely the maxima! T cell protiferative response.
although {t ts evident that the peak response in the
serum-free cultures was delayed 48 hr compared with
the serum-containing cultures.

Vartous other protein supptements in eu of BSA were
also tested. as shown in Table I. There was no signifi-

Bu] - To tnesrporction (CPA 2 Wynd
e

% 2 a 6 a ”

Culture Duration (Days)

Figure 5. Primary culture of peripheral dmphoctes in IL 2-suppte-
mented, serum-free media. Incorporation of °H- TAR ring the final 4 hr
of culture ts indicated on alternate days for cells epltured in medium
supplemented with 10% FCS (@). or 200 nM TT. 1 uM BSA, and 1 nM IL 2
(@®. Symbols represent the mean + SEM of 12 separate experiments.
Although not diustrated tn the Ngure. it is hoteworthy that (L. 2 suppie-
mentation of lymphocytes cultured in FCS altered pcither the time of
oneet nor ihe magnitude of the protiferative response observed when cella
were cultured in FCS without exogenous IL 2, However. the proliferative
feaponse was prolonged and the return to a resting population of celis
was more gradual.

TABLE 1th

 

SERUM-FREE T CELL CULTURE

cant difference tn “H-TdR incorporation when HSA was
substituted for BSA: If | uM Tf was used. the albumin
supplement could be excluded entirely. Moreover, IL. 2
ttself at a high concentration (100 nM) was capable of
promoting an equivalent proliferative response. thereby
affirming that albumin is completely unnecessary for the
promotion of T cetl cycle progresston. Also. nanomolar
and micromolar concentrations of both insulin and IGF:
1 were tested to determine whether etther of these hor:
mones could accelerate the antigen-receptor triggered
proliferation: Although the incorporation of "H-TdR was
monitored throughout 10 days of culture. netther the rate
nor the magnitude of the response was affected by these
hormones. :

{Lk 2 receptor expresston tn serum-free medium. Al-
though IL 2-supplemented cultures attained maximal
Proliferative responses equivalent to serum-supple-
mented cell populations. the significant delay in the de-
velopment of the response indicated that an additional
rate-limiting process was operative. Because the onset of
T cell cycle progression is determined by IL 2 receptor
density, in addition to the available IL 2 concentration. it
seemed lkely that IL 2 receptor expresston could also be
affected by the lack of serum, espectally as IL 2 receptor
expression. like iL 2 production. depends upon adequate
T cell receptor activation. When monitored directly, cells
activated by anti-T3 and cultured without serum were
capable of expressing high affinity IL 2 receptors, al-
though the receptor density was only 50% of that ex-
Pressed by cells cultured in serum (Table [V). Further-
more. the expression of both high and tow affinity recep-
tors was retarded by the exclusion of serum, a3 exempii-
fled by Scatchard analysis of binding data (Fig. 6). There-
fore. these data are consistent with those obtained when
IL 2 production Is monitored. and Provide a logtcal expia-
nation for the delayed proliferative responses of anti-T3-
activated T cell populations in the absence of serum,

DISCUSSION

The results derived from the diverse experimental ap-
Proaches utilized in this Investigation indicate an essen-
ual. active role for serum only Guring the early events of
the competence phase of the T cell cycle, where It is
necessary for an optimal rate of IL 2 production and IL 2
receptor expression. Serum proteins also function pas-
sively in preventing the adsorptive loss of IL 2, adequate
concentrations of which are necessary to promote G,
progression to the S phase. However, the G, phase of the
cell cycle is Itself Independent of any serum requirement,
Consequently, the localizatton of the serum effect only to
the earitest stage of T ceil activation should facilitate the

TABLE IV
The effect of serum on tt 2 receptor expresston*
High Affinity tL 2 Receptore

 

 

The effect of various protein supplements on T celt proliferation®
°M-FdR fricorporation® Experiment reneen
Supplement Concentration tmean cpiasnr ¢ SEM! 108 FCS OR FCS

tcs 10% 0.940 = $26 a 440 t3s0
BSA 1Oum 31.763 2 2435 2 320 210
HSA 1.00M 9.747 2 1b 3 640 270
™. 1.0.M tO.327 = 169 4 275 a4
m2 Ole 9.565 + 154 5 580 260

* All cultures received a minimum of | nM IL 2 and 200 nM TY. except Mean 2 SEM 443 + 68 195 ¢ 38

thoes supplemented with FCS.
* The resulta represent the maxtmum seaponse occurring on day 4 in.

the culture containing FCS and on day 6 of the remaining cultures.

 

{Measured 24 tr after ante-T3 sumulstion.
“p< 0.01 by paired ¢-tent.

PUBLICATIONS

10355237

035816