W022 TGF AT 1 19a V9RRADD DO oO
THE Jor ena oF ime wate :
Pepenghr  1an7 py The amen: an Aasorianon 41 Iminuaniogiass

 

 

& bee —

339]
val 139 098-1008 No 6 augue: 04 1E
Pontea ints.

T CELL GROWTH WITHOUT SERUM’

VICTORIA L. HERZBERG anv
Dartmouth Medteal School, Hanover. NH 03756

From the Department of Medicine.

Most in vitro T cell proliferation ents are
performed by using serum-supplemented medium,
yet the actual contributions of serum components
to cell cycle p: ion remain ill-defined. thus
complicating attempts to fully define requirements
for cell division. By utilizing a Functional separation
between T cell receptor-triggered “competence” and
IL 2-promoted “progression” to indcpendently as-
sess Serum requirements during each cell cycie
stage. it was shown that serum serves an essential.
active role only during the early events of the com-
petence phase (Go-G, transition) of T cell activation.
Serum is required for optimal IL 2 production and
the cell surface expression of IL 2 receptors after
the stimulation of the T;/T, antigen receptor com-
pilex. In contrast. serum docs not function actively
during IL 2-mediated progression through the G,
phase of the cycle. Serum Proteins serve only a
Passive role at this si je. preventing the adsorption
of IL 2. This same c fect can be provided by any
number of proteins including IL 2 itself. or even a
high cell concentration. Supplementation of serum-
free T cell cultures solely with IL 2 and transferrin
is sufficient for maximal T cell Proliferation. al-
though the time of the Peak response is delayed
owing to a suboptimal rate of IL 2 receptor expres-
sion, Accordingly, the realization that serum is oniy
mecessary for the earliest stage of fT cell activation
will now enable studies designed to identify the
critical individual serum components and to define

their mechanism of action.

Scrum ts considered one of the most essential compo-
nents of any culture medium Supporting an optimal! rate
of T cell proliferation, yet the effective motecules in se-
rum and their respective functional roles have remained
obscure. In part, the difficulties nherent in the Identift-
cation of serum components critical for cell growth can
be attributed to the complex nature of serum itself. How-
ever. this difficulty has been compounded by a lack of
understanding regarding the fundamental intraceltular
motecular mechanisms responsible for progression
through the separate stages of the cell cycle. Conse-
quently. it has been impossible to design experiments
that identify just how senam contributes to cell cycle

Received for publication March 3, 3987
Accepted Jor publication May 11. 1987
yed Im part by the

The costs of publication of his article were defra:
payment of page Charges. This srticle musi therefore be hereby marked
advertisement in accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 solely to indy.
cate this fact

“This work was supported mn Part by a grant to VoL. H. from the
Charles H. Hood Foundation. and grants to K. A. S feom the Nattonal_
Cancer institute tCA-1 7683). The Council for Tobacco Research—U S.A..

inc. (1735S). and the Eli Litly Corporation.

KENDALL a. SMITH

Progression. In turn. it has been equally difficuit todefine
completely the moiecular mechanisms responsible for
cell cycle progression so tong as the nature of the serum

contribution remained uncertain.
Several critical functions have Keen attributed toserum

{1). For example. serum was (hought to provide essential
nutrients that still remain unidentified and therefore
could not be includéd in the common media formulations.
Serum has also been credited with the tmacttvation of
various toxic agents such as metais. oxidants, and pro-
teases. Among the putative Serum components consid-
ered important for these and other in vitro functions are
albumin, lipids. transferrin, and various hormones. most
notably insulin. Albumin. the most prevalent serum pro-
tein. has deen viewed as a primary nutrient 12. 3). and
also as 4 carrier of active components such as free fatty
acids, small peptide hormones. and trace metais (1. ap.
Lipids have also been assigned a nutritive function (5. 5S).
although some investigators have found them Inhibitory
for cell growth in vitro. especially for lectin-activated T
cells (7. 8}. The role of insulin tn cell growth has never
been clearly delineated. even though it ts the hormone
supplement utilized most frequently In the culture of cell
lines adapted for growth in defined. serum-free medium
(3). In contrast. it ts noteworthy that transferrin is the

ed (10. 11). Cell surface transferrin recep-
tors function to deliver tvansferrin-bownd iron into the
cell where it is required as a co-factor essential for the
maximal activity of tbonucleotide reductase. a key en-
zyme in nucleotide synthesis (22. 23). Serum aupplemen-
tation thus serves to provide transferrin which facilitates
the uptake of iron, a vital nutrient known to be required
for a distinct stage {5) of the cell cycle. :

The localization of transferrin-bound iron as tmportant.
for the S phase of the cell cycle Is consistent with its
function as a co-factor necessary for DNA replication. in
a similar manner. it would be advantageous to identify
other phases of the T cell cycie where specific scnam
components are required. Fortunately. it proved possible
{© exploit the model system of T cell growth in which it
has been established that twe entirely separate mem-
branc receptors promote advancement through the cett
cycle (14-16). Stimulation of the T cell receptor complex
Jnittates G, to G, transition. thereby rendering the cells
“competent” by activating the transcription of at least
two critical genes. one encoding interleukin 2 {IL 2) and
the other. the IL 2 receptor (16). Subsequently. activated
IL 2 receptors promote passage through the remainder of
the G, phase to S (14. 1S). Thus. lymphocyte blastic
transformation is actually the morphologic manifestation
of IL 2 mediated G, progression (15). rather than a con-
Sequence of T cell antigen receptor activation, as as-

035812

998

PUBLICATIONS

10355233