SERUM-FREE T CELL CULTURE

sumed previously.

AS a result of these conceptual advances. and because
unique molecular reagents such as homogeneous IL 2
and roltogenic monoclonal sntibodies are now readily
available, events associated with each distinct phase of
the T cell cycle could be explored by using fresh experi-
mental approaches. Accordingly. to define the s¢rum con-
tribution to events associated with T cell cycle progres-
sion. experiments were planned to ascertain whether
there Is indeed a serum requirement for the competence
or progression phases {or both) of the T cell cycle. Re-
markably. serum was found essential for an optimal race
of IL 2 production and IL 2 receptor expression, whereas
i proved quite unnecessary during iL 2-promoted G,.
progressicn.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Cutture nietium and additives. RPMI 1640 medium (Grand Is-
land Biological Co.. Grand Istand. NY) was supplemented with 25.
mM HEPES buffer (pH 7.2). 50 U/mt penicillin G. 50 ugfent genta-
micin. and 300 agfmi veglitamine. Fetal calf serum (FCS: Sterie
Systems. In¢.. Logan. UT} was heated (56°C. 30 min) and used as a
medium supplement at 10% (v/v) Bovine serum albumin {BSA:
Sigma Chemicals. St. Louts. MO: ne. A751 1) prepored from erystal-
lized and lyophilized albumin was certified as essentially fatty actd
(ree. Human serum albumin (HSA? Pierce Chemical Co.. Rockford.
OL) was affintty purified by using a Cibacron Blue F3G6A column.
tmmuncaffinty-purified human Immunogiobulin G (IgG) was ob-
tained from Miles Sctentific, Naperville, IL. Human holotransfenin
(Ti. Bochringer-Mannheim Biochemtcais. Indianapolts, IN} was cer-
ttfted as 98% pure. TS Ulration experiments established that 20 nM
‘was the minimal concentration to fully support DNA replication in
the absence of serum. Therefore. a 10-fold excess (200 nM) was used
routinely vo 3 Take an optimal rate of S phase trans, Recombir

 

nant IL 2 (rll. 2; Takeda Chemical industrtes, Ltd., Osaka, Japan}
was purified to homogeneny (17) and suppited at 1.0 mg/ml. sus-
pended tn 0.1 M ammonium acetate (pH 5.0). Zinc crystals of puntied

rk insulin. (27.1 USP insulin U/mg: Etanco Products Division. Eli

ly Co.. Indianapolis. IN) were dissolved in 0.05 N HCI prior to
further dilutions in RPMI 1640 medium with 1 uM BSA, Recombi-
Rani Insulin-like growth factor 1 IGF-t; CIBA-GEIGY Lid., Basel.
Switzerland) waa dissolved in RPMI 1640 medium with | uM BSA.
‘The biologic potency of the insulin and iGF-1 preparations was tested
for the conzentration-dependent stimulation of 2-deoxy-ghucose
transport arid were shown to be fully active at the appropriate
concentrations. Alt medium supplements were sterilized by filtrauion
(024m). . .

Ceti cuitures. Human peripheral mononuclear cells, Inolated from
hepannized blood by Ficoll-Hypaque discontinuous density gradient
centrifugation, were washed free of plasma and culwred in a hu-
midified atmosphere of 5% CO» In alr by using 96-well microtiter
plates a1 1 x. 10% cells/m! tn 0.2 ml RPMI 1640 medium. The T cell
antigen receptor complex was activated by using antl-T3 (OKT3;
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.. Raritan. NJ). Each lot of ant!-TS was
trated with ane without a FCS Supplement: Maximal responses in
serum-free and senaum-supplemented cultures were aimilar, and
(imal concentrations ranged between 31/€,000 and 1/10,000 final
dilutton. Entry into the S phase of the cell cycle was monitored by
the incorporation of tritiated thymidine PH-TAR, 2 eCl/iml. specific
activity = 8.0 mCi/mmol: Schwarz/Mann Div.. Becton Dickinson
Co.. Mountain View, CAS during the final 4 hr of culture. Cultures
were harvested on glass fiber filter paper with an automated cell
harvester and were counted by liquid scintiliatian. .

in some experiments. peripheral mononuciear cells were made IL
2 receptor positive by culture in medium containing seram and anc
TS for 3 days. They were then washed fret of IL 2 produced In situ
and were cultured for 2 addittonsl days in IL 2-free medium to allow
for their reaccumutatton in the early G, phase of the cell cycle.
Subsequently. ike cells were washed and incubated In serum-free
medium at 37°C for 30 min {*2} to dissociate surface-bound senam
Proteins. Resumption of cell cycle progression was monitored alter
the addition of rit 2 ¢t nh) to cells suspended in medium with or
without FCS.

IL 2 production In serum-containing vs serum-free medium wap
dctermined by stimulating peripheral monanuclear cells (5 «x 10"

* Abbreviations used in this paper. HSA. human serum albumin, TH.
Asunaterrin: (GF+1. Insulin-like growth (actar %

999

celle/ml) with antt-T3 11/10.000) anil phorbol myrisuc acetate 1PMA.
SO ngsmt: Consolidated Midlands Corp.. Brewster. NY). Aliquots of
culture supernatants were harvested at intervals and quantified via
the IL 2 bipassay.

tL 2 assays. IL 2 biologic activity was determined by (he IL 2
concentration-dependent proliferation of a claned munne ¢ytolytic
T lymphocyte line (CTLL-2. subctone 15G) (18). a8 described (19).
CTLL proliferation. as indicated by *H-TdR incorporation. was de-
termined during the lest 4 br of a 24-hr culture penod. The sample
dilutions yielding 50% of the maxtmum CTLL °H-TdR incorporatien
fEDso} were divided by the ED of the standard (riL 2. 2 nM] to give
the molar concentration of IL 2. ,

The concentration of 1L 2 remaiming tn solution upon incubation
with medium containing FCS or various proteins was montiored by
using FIL 2 radiciodinated via solid-phase lactoperoxWase-glucose
oxidase JEnzymobeads. Blorad Lats. Riehmand. CA) wecorgne to
the manufacturer's instructions. The specific activity {| x 10° epm/
pmol) was determined by using the 1L 2 bioassay.

iL 2 binding assay. Radioiodinaied 1. 2 waa diluted with unia-
beled rIL 2 to create the two desired specific activities (1.0 % 10°
¢pm/pmol and 1.0 = 10° cpm/pmo}} so that binding assays Could be

farmed at IL 2 concentrations ranging fram 1 pM to 100 nM.
Ginding of IL 2 to utact cells was performed as described (20). except
that the cell suspension [10* cells in 0.2 mi RPMI 1620 medium
supplemented with | 2M BSA] was cverlayed onto a 0.2 ml mixture
of 60% silicone off (Dexter Hysol 550 Muld: Dexter Corp.. Oriean. NY
and 20% paraffin off (0-119: Fisher Scientific Co.. Fair Lawn. NJ).
After 20 min incubation at 37°C. the tubes were centrifuged [8500
» G. 90 sec}. the tips of the urbes containing the cell pellet were
severed, and the cell-bound and -free radioactivity was determined
by solid seintillatton counting. The calculated values for the number
of binding sttes per cell were derived by Scatchard analysis of
equilibriam binding data after sublraction ef nonspecific binding
determined in the presence of a 400-fold molar excess of unlabeled
Hgand.

RESULTS

T celt proliferation in serum-supplemented vs serum-
Sree medium. The serum requirement for maximal T cell
proliferation ts readily demonstrated by the response of
anti-T3-stimulated human peripheral T cells cultured in
serum-containing compared with serum-free medium. As
Wlustrated tn Figure 2. the peak proliferative response in
10% FCS occurs after 4 days of culture, whereas omission
of serum results in a markedly attenuated response: in
serum-free medium °H-TdR incorporation reaches less.
than 20% of the level measured in serum-containing
cultures.

Because the rate of S phase transit was the index used
for cell cycle progression in these experiments, transfer-
rin (4 jron-saturated) was provided to cells in serum-free
culture to ascertain to what extent it alone could support
T cell °H-TdR Incorporation. As anticipated. the addition
of Tf partially corrected the defictency noted in the ab-
sence of strum, but maximal proliferation was delayed
and the peak response still only approached 50% of that
observed In the presence of 10% FCS iF ig. 1).

IL 2 activity in serum-free and protein-free medium.
A critical number of interactions between IL 2 and high
affinity IL 2 receptors must occur prior to the generation
of the Intracellular signals necessary for activated T cells
to progress through the G, to the S phase (14). To attain
this threshold. a receptor-saturating IL 2 concentration
{2100 pM} must be sustained for at least 5 hr. Because
purified IL 2 binds to plastic and glass in protein-free
solutions. the disappearance of IL 2 via adsorption was
considered a likely explanation for the depressed prolif-
eration observed In serum-free medium. Therefore. the
half-life (tYa) of IL 2 was determined by measuring the
concentration of radtotodinated IL 2 remaining tn solu-
tion as @ function of time In serum-free vs serum-con-

PUBLICATIONS

10355234

035813