PH TaR Incorporation {CPM x10-Spy}

Culture Duration (Doys)

Figure J. T ceil prouferation in strum-supplemented vs serum-free
medium. The extent of T cell proliferation was monitored, dy the incor-
poration of 7H-TAR during 4 br intervals on alternate days of culture after
stimulation with anu-T3. Medium supplements included 10° PCS (0),
200 AM human transfermn @. dnd no protein additives (aj. The brackets
represent lhe mean ¢ SEM of 91x separate experiments (®, 4). and of four
separate experiments (8.

taining media. As is shown in Figure 2A. the '=2IL 2
concentration declined rapidly tin Uhe absence of serum
(t% = 5 hr), whereas 10% FCS prevented comptetely the
disappearance of '1-IL over a 12-hr interval. On the
basis of these findings. the concentrations of FCS nec-
essary to prevent IL 2 adsorption were determined and
compared with the concentrattons of FCS required for
support of maximal anti-T3-stimulated lymphocyte pro-
Uferatton. The results displayed in Figure 2B make it
evident that although 10% FCS 1g necessary for an opti-
mal proliferative response, as tthe a5 0.1% FCS pratecta
completely against IL 2 adsorption. Thus. serum ap-
Peared to actively contribute some additional component
necessary for proliferation beyond simply preventing the
adsorptive loss of IL 2. In this regard. because low serum
concentrations sufficed t¢ maintatn IL 2 in solution, it
seemed likely that any of a number of purified proteins
could also serve in this capacity. When monitored by the
recovery of '*1-IL 2, the protective effect of FCS was
equally provided by BSA. HSA, human igG. and even IL
2 itself (Fig. 34). Moreover. 1 uM of any of these proteins
protected against the loss of IL 2. In contrast. 10-fold
higher concentrations of the smaller insulin molecule
were required to mediate the same effect.

The decline of the free '*1-1L 2 concentration through
adsorptlon to the culture vessel dtd not of itself indicate
that the molecule need be unavailable to the cells. There-
fore, the biologic consequence of the disappearance of
free IL 2 was assessed by using the IL 2 bioassay: the
results of this experiment are also plotted tn Figure 34.
The concentrations of BSA. HSA. and human [gG that
protected against adsorptive toss of '?°1-1L 2 coincided
precisely with the concentrations of these proteins nec-
essary to support the proliferation of the IL 2-dependent
cell ine CTLL, indicating that the detectable free radic-

PUBLICATIONS

      

        

 

' 1 OOF "O00 6

Fetal Colf Serum (%)

"RIL 2 after 12 he at BPC (®) are compared with the toncentralions of
FCS necessary to Support T cell proliferation as monitored by °H-Tat
incorporation 4 days after stimulation with antl-T3 (a). Maximum tncor-
poration of 7+4-TdR/hour was t3.716 cpm + 746 SEM).

labeled IL 2 concentrations accurately reflected the IL 2
dtologic activity.

Because these experiments were performed tn the ab-
sence of ceils. the conditions dtd not mimic those of the
in vitro T cell proliferation assays. Therefore. the prea-
ence of freshly isolated Peripheral mononuclear cells on
the adsorption of '**1-IL 2 was also assessed, The results.
displayed graphically in Figure 38, reveal a remarkable
cell concentration-dependent protective effect on the ad-
Sorption of **°1-IL 2, It ts noteworthy that cell concentra-
tons in excess of 10° cells/ml Prevent the disappearance
of IL 2, whereas lower cell densities are progressively less
effective. At cell concentrations below 10° cells/ml. ¢s-
Sentlally no protection against IL 2 toss is evident.

iL 2-promoted cett cycle progression in the absence
of serum. Having established that high cell density and/
or low concentration of serum or other Protein sources
are required to prevent the adsorptive loss of exogenously
Supplied IL 2. it became feasibie to investigate whether
additional serum components are required for IL 2-pro-
moted G, progression to the S phase. Therefore, to dis- -
sociate T cell receptor-derived competence signals from
G, progression signals emanating from the IL 2 receptor.
IL 2 receptor-bearing cells were stimulated to reenter the
active phases of the cell cycle by exposure to ri 2 (pM),
elther in the presence of 10% FCS or in Medium suppic-

035814

10355235