IL-2 B/F (Molecules ‘Cell pM)
s s

gs

0 0 20 0 40
Bound (Molecules/Cell x 10-4)

. Figure6. Seatchard analysis of the binding of ‘241-6 2 to peripheral
lymphocytes. Antl-T3-stumulated lymphocytes were cultured for 46 he in
medium supplemented with 10° FCS {@) and without protein additives
ta) before anaiysis,

design of studies to identify the relevant serum compo-
nents and to define their mechanism of acuion.

The real significance of the demonstration that serum
serves solely a passive role during IL 2-promoted G, pro-

ession resides In the probability that this or an essen-
Wally similar phenomenon is functioning in other cell
culture systems. Mast earlier studtes have assumed that
serum actively stimulates the cells. However. our findings
demonstrate clearly the necessity of including micromo-
lar concentrations of some inert protein so as to retain in
solution the crucial subnanomotar concentrations of
polypeptide growth and differentiation factors. For ex-
ample. the addition of any of a number of different pro-
teins causes an increased IL 2-promoted proliferative
response simply because the adsorptive loss of IL 2 ts
Prevented, while the individual proteins themselves pro-
vide nothing essential for cell growth. It ts also evident
from these studies that the loss of active molecules would
be even more problematical when cells are cultured at
very low density. Given these observations. previous
studies Indicating an active role for “filler cetls* (21) or
inappropriately high concentrations of polypeptide hor-
mones as critical components of serum-free media (9)
should be reexamined, keeping in mind a passive. protec-
tive function against loss of autocrine growth factors 2s
an alternative explanation.

The tack of a serum requirement for IL 2-stimulated G,
Progression to the S phase was quite unanticipated given
that IL 2 is responsible for the marked metabolic and
morphologic changes of G, progresston (15) that ration-
ally might be expected to require special nutritive or
hormonal components of serum. Moreover. studies of
murine 3T3 cells indicate that plasma/serum-derived
factors such as insulin and/or IGF-} are essential to max-
imize the rate of G, progression (22). whereas our findings
establish that freshly isolated T cells ¢o nol require mul-

SERUM-FREE T CELL CULTURE

1003

Uple serum-derived polypeptide growth factors for G,
Progresston to the S phase. However. 1 should be noted
thai 3T3 ceil lines have been selected in vitro for growth
in serum. thereby making tt difficult to directly compare
their requirements with those of freshly isolated normal
human T cells.

Activation of the T cell receptor serves to promote Go
td G, transition. rendering the cella competent in a man-
ner resembling the effect, of platelet-derived growth fac-
tor on 3T3 cells (23). Therefore. the localization of a
primary. active role for serum In this phase of the T cell
cycle 1s especially intriguing in that it focuses attention
on a role for serum components in the mechanism of T
cell receptor signal transduction. and/or in the subse-
quent events associated with IL 2 and IL 2 receptor gene
expression. Such a strict serum requirement for optimal
IL 2 production and IL 2 receptor expression was inan-
Ucipated. because serum-free medium was utilized to
produce and purify IL 2 from JURKAT leukemia cells
(24). However. in this instance. it is noteworthy that IL 2
production by JURKAT cells. in contrast to normal T
cells. proceeds equally well whether or not serum és added
to the culture medium. With regard to normal T cell
phystology, the demonstration of a serum-dependent.
rate-limiting step in the pathway between stimulation of
the antigen receptor and the subsequent transcriptional
activation and expression of the IL. 2 and IL 2 receptor
genes suggests a possible control point at an early stage
of antigen challenge. well before IL 2 amplifies the im-
mune response. Eventually. identification of the strum
component(s] responsible for this critical step may indi-
cate new approaches for either enhancing or dampening
the IL 2-mediated network of responses. :

The function of the individual serum components is
already amenable to analysis because so much is, now
known regarding the initial events triggered by the T cell
antigen receptor complex. For example. because cDNA
probes for the IL 2 gene (25} and at least one of the chains
(9) of the IL 2 receptor are available (26. 27). the mecha-
nism whereby serum contributes to the expression of
these genes can now be approached. Information regard-
ing the mechanism whereby serum factittates T cell re-
ceptor function may tndicate those serum constituents
sesponsiblie for the observed effect. In this respect. recent
findings (28) suggest that activation of platelet-derived
growth factor receptors. which also function through the
phosphoinositol pathway. stimulates the utilization of
exogenous fatty acids vic low density lipoprotein recep:
tors. Because albumin. Tf. insulin, and IGF-I have all
now been excluded as serum constituents that facilitate
T cell receptor function. serum lipids may well merit
closer scrutiny. especially 48 previous reports empha-
sized an important role for lipids in serum-free media
formulae (5. 6).

Even before the initiation of additional studies directed
toward the identification of the serum components re-
sponsible for the optimal rate of IL. 2 and IL 2 receptor
gene expression, it should be emphasized that the culture
system, as described thus far, supports maximal poly-
ctonal T cell proliferation without additional serum sup-
plementation. Thus. simply by providing IL 2 and Tf.
optimal in vitro T cell imamune responses can be att alned
without heterologous serum proteins. which are generally
suspected of introducing immunologic artifacts. being

PUBLICATIONS 035817

10355238