July 25, 1995

To: G. C. Pennell ec: Jim Helm
Doug Shouse

From: Michael Corcoran Michelle Soyars
Kathryn Noxon

Subject: Project Symphony Meeting

As we are postponing our Symphony meeting tomorrow, I wanted you to be aware of a
couple of issues that, in order to keep the ball rolling, we may want to address prior to
next Monday. Here is one item we wanted to discuss:

e Diamond Shamrock - The issue here is to have everyone on board with the same plan.

I spoke today with R. P. Dotson, and H. J. Heintz in San Antonio. They had planned to
call Diamond Shamrock today (though did not get through) to resolve the issues with
Hogshead. H.J. was was able to set up an appointment with Jim Manning for this Friday.

As per discussions with David Owens last week, R. P and H. J. were going to propose
that Diamond Shamrock accept Hogshead and sell it in their generic branded savings
display, alongside Doral. They would not benefit from the $0.50/carton deal. I do not
believe that would give Hogshead due chance for success.

According to R.P., I am not sure with the merchandising contract we have with Diamond
Shamrock that we will be able to ‘force’ them into accepting the Hogshead display as
another footprint.

At a meeting today with Jim Helm, Kathryn Noxon and Michelle Soyars, we discussed the
idea of having Diamond Shamrock accept the temporary Hogshead counter display and
switch it out with existing RJR displays. For example, have the Hogshead display up for a
month instead of Doral, and for another month instead of Select, Camel, etc.

e That leads to the idea of a test within a test - to determine exactly what impact having
full retailer support has on the success of the brand. Testing the success of Hogshead
with a retailer who does not support the brand, versus testing it with retailers who do,
i.e. full partners Circle K and NCS supporting the brand against a Diamond Shamrock
more conventional approach.

We could potentially have a similar situation in Pittsburgh, with UniMart. I just wanted
you to be aware of the situation, and wanted to hear your reaction/recommendation.

uw
e
ib
H
aa
a
N
©
Ww