EXPORT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT.

Hong Kong Consumer Panel Test (Hong Kong)
‘The third HKCP test (E-N603) was planned to be a menthol baseline test, but due to quality
problems on the marketplace-sourced products this test was cancelled.

International Smoking Methodology (Hong Kong/Switzerland)

A meeting was held with Product Development, Q.A. and Technical Services to address issues
of smoking methodology and specifications for Hong Kong and Switzerland. It was agreed
that all products being sent to Hong Kong will be sampled separately in Manufacturing and
smoked in Q.A, using the UK smoking methodology. Products going to Switzerland will also
be sampled and smoked using the ISO procedure. Analytical data will be closely monitored.
All export products will now be handled according to the specified smoking procedure for each
individual market.

PMSL Carbon Activity (Japan)

Results were received from Danchi I (E-K936), in which control PMSL (at $0% - 60% carbon
Activity) was tested against three incrementally increased levels of carbon activity (70-80%, 90-
100%, and 110-120%). There were no significant differences in liking scores for any of the
four prototypes among both individual and combined smoker groups.

INTERNATIONAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

Project "Libano" LS, (El Salvador)

L&M L.S. Box prototype has been subjectively evaluated by the Richmond Panel and results
indicate it is an acceptable product. El Salvador plans to launch this product in the first quarter
1991. Delivery data is 14.3 mg/cigt. FTC Tar and .79 mg/cigt. Nicotine. El Salvador has been
informed of the Richmond Panel results.

Line Extensions (El Salvador)

The following prototypes have been received from El Salvador and submitted for C.1. analysis.

Project Golfo Persico: L&M 100’s
Project Quebec: Diplomat Lights 100’s Regular
Project Quebec Menthol: Diplomat Lights 100’s Menthol

   

; This dacument belangs to Philip Morris U.S.A. It cannot be photocopied. It cannot be transferred to a colleague.
| it Must be returned to R&D's Central File as soon as you have no further use far it,

 

TEQCLEISOG