>

The groving rezion in which the tobacco is grown will influence the content
of the three polyphenols investigated, The results obtained from the Live
crop years studied indicated that tobacco purchased from the South Carolina
_Srowing region will, in general, have a higher rutin and chlorogenic acid
content and lover scopolctin content than tobacco groun in the Old Belt

or Easter Carolina growing regions. .

Considerable variation in the content of chlorogenic acid, rutin, or
scopoletin content of individual leaf grade samples from one crop year

to another was observed. There was a general trend tovard an increase .
in the averase of the chlorogenic acid content of all the grades over the
five-year period studied. The scopoletin content varied over the same
period with the changes observed showing no general trend,

TOLACCO FLORA

Standard plate counts of the number of bacteria in flue~curcd and burley
tobaccos were made at the onset and during aging. The number of bacteria
present initially varied widely but in general was related to the position
of the leaves on the stalk. The number was much lower in flue-curcd
tobaccos from the Winston-Salem Market than from other markets, Anerobes
present initially were less than half the number of aerobes in most
tobaccos, and microaerobes were equal to or less than the number of
aerobes, Increases in the number of aerobes occurred at some time

during the first. tyo years of aging in two-thirds of the flue-cured
tobacco samples and curing the third year of aging in four out of five

oe -. .

» : °
one 8 cee te Py . . . on Pars » $$ . * ~ - toe a eee. te
Pee atebe Be Candee edhe TOR ARR Leh ee Veen &

“a the burle,
tobaccos. The ancrobes decreased more rapidly during aging than other
Broups of bacteria, ”

Bacterial counts in excess of 5 X 10°/. concurrent with relatively high
citric acid contents were followed by the disappearance of 10 to 15 percent
of the citric acid and drastic reductions in the number of bacteria. .
-Relatively large numbers of bacteria were often associated with relatively
low nicotine contents. Loy bacterial counts in tobaccos from the
Winston-Salem Narket were invariably associated with high nicotine contents.

The data obtained supported the following conclusions:

1, The microflora of good quality tobacco was predominantly bactcrial.
2.° She number of bacteria in most tobaccos varied widely during aging.

“3. There was a relationship -between the nunber_of bacteria and
their position on the stalk in 68 out of &1 samples from six
markets studied. In gseneral, the Lower stalk positions had
higher numbers of bacteria.

4. ‘Tobaccos from the same market area did not always bear similar

‘ numbers of bacteria in succeeding years. .

5. Averages of initial counts of acrobes was consistently much
lower Sor the Winston-Salem Merket thin for other markets in
the years 1953-1956,

ESL SSTtOS