ec.

£

Be
he

 

° ~6-

Jhexe were good negative correlations between citrate,
oxlate, and the reducing carbohydrate fractions (total

and free reducing substances, glucose, fructose),

There was a good correlation between oxalate and nicotine.
Malate showed the least correlation with other compounds.
Malate shoved a good negative correlation with starch.
Malate showed a good correlation between alkali extractable

acids and percent ash and between alkali extractable acids
and alkalinity, of ash. :

15. Correlation analysis of various constituents of all 1954, 1955,
1956, burley grades, taken as a group, showed that:

a.

Ce

4,

There was a high correlation between alkali extractable
acids and citric and malic acids and a high negative
correlation between alkali extractable acids and oxalic
acid, .

There was good correlation between citrate and malate and
between citrate and sand, There was a negative correlation
between citrate and oxalate, total nitrogen and total micor-
aerobes.

There was a negative correlation betucen malete and oxalate,

There was a correlation between oxalate and nitrogen.

16. Nearly all of the phosphate in tobacco was water soluble.

17. There was no loss of organic matter during aging.

18. Citric: acid and oxalic acid were much lower in both fluc-cured
and burlty stews than in leaf, Malic acid was, much higher in
fluc-cured stems than in leaf but it was at about the same level
in burlecy stems as in buxley lcaf.

POLYPHENOLS ¢

- . 4
After two years' aging, the average decrease in chlorogenic acid content
was five percent and the average decrease in rutin content was 12 percent.
Scopoletin content shoved both increases and decreases with none of the
changes being greater than ten percent. Since the changes in the content
of chlorogenic acid, rutin, and scopolectin.after aging are small compared

with the di

ffLoyencer due to leaf quality, aging would, thereferc, not

affect appreciably the content of these constituents in the finished

cigarette.

é

ca ee ge ee te me pete

e€SeL SSTtos