1

 

Leaf moisture correlated well with total reducing substances in aged
fluc-cured tobacco end with anacrobic bacteria populations in unaged
tobacco.

CATTONYDRATES ¢

The quantitative changes of some of the carbohydrate constituents of
flue-curcd and burley tobacco were studied, during the aging process,
for six crop years (1953-1958).

In flue-curcd tebacco, the most dramatic net_changes which occur, after
two years' of natural aging, are significant net. decreases in glucose
and reducing substances (average of -0.874 and -1.174, by weight,
respectively). On the average, there are no significant net changes

in fructose, sucrose, starch or the nonsugar reducing fraction. However,
jin the case of sucrose, there is considered to be a net decrease although
the degree of change is small. -

Cyclical changes in sugars and reducing substances were also observed

in fluc-cured tobacco, during the natural aging process. There were no
uniform patterns for these types of changes. Different grades of tobaccos
from the same crop year showed simultancous increases and decreases in
sugars and reducing substances, during the same period.

Burley tobacco contains very small amounts of reducing substances and
starch, Neither the total reducing substanées nor starch show any

*. ere . os .

pare ipacvrtrs ehaubee Gud detg Lhe salutes upgaiy Pavevton ait vusacy LUVALLUs
‘hese reducing, substances wore attributed to the presence of polyphenolic
type compounds Such as chlorogenic acid and rutin, which are known to be
present in burley tobacco,

Calculating the ratios of the sugars present _in flue~cured tobacce led to
several observations. Fructose is always present in greater amount than
glucose, Sucrose is always present in smaller amounts than both fructose
and glucose. The data also showed two direct relationships between the
ratios of the sugars in tobacco and Company grades: The higher the

guality of the Company grade, the lower the ratio of fructose to glucose;
and the higher the ratio of sucrose to glucose.

A high degree of correlation was found between the total rainfall, during °-
the tobacco growing, season, and the relative sugar content of fluc-cured
tobacco. The axiom may be stated as; the greater the rainfall, the higher
the sugar content of flue-cured tobacco,

AMINO. ACIDS :

?

Several of the free amino acids in unaged and aged flue-cured and buxley
tobaccos were determined quantitatively by wodification of the Moore

and Stein method of jon exchange chromatography. Sawples of the 1955,
11956, and 1957 crops were investigated Initially and after two years!
ceing.

a
°
-
a
oO
“J
-
+
0