.
°

-4-

A pencra) reduction occurred in the concentrations of aspartic acid,
plutaaic acid, threonine, the amidcs (glutamine and asparagine), proline,
and alanine during the course of aging. These amine acids, the Eirst to
appear on the chronmategram, represent only half of those known to occur
in curcd tobacco. Data were gathered on the conpounds named, to the
exclusion of the others, because of the inherent slowness of the earlier
versions of the analytical procedure. The method was curtailed in.order
that the maximun number of samples could be examined,

Proline was the most abundant amino acid in most.of the fluc~cured grades
analyzed, It was practically absent from the burley samples.

The concentration of the amides, asparagine, and glutamine, which are
eluted as a single peak in the method used, ranked next to proline in
the flue~cured samples.

In burley, the amide mixture was the most abundant of the amino constituents.
The suggestion is made that the depletion of free amino acids in aging
tobaccos may be due to a reversible binding of these compounds to one or

more as yet unidentified substances. This idea is supported by the results
of determining total amino acids in hydrolyzates of unaged and aged

tobaccos. A difference of less than three percent was found between the

aged and unaged samples of flue-cured and burley tobacco.

-A characteristic of chromatograms of flue-cured samples is the appearance
2fo rin unidentificd pose peice te Unt os tie fadact ideuiicdavie antany

acid, aspartic acid.

ORGAYC ACIDS:

ne

Representative samples of flue-cured and burley tobaccos of the 1953 through
-1958 crops were analyzed for citric, malic, and oxalic acids and for. ,
alkali extractable acids. All samples were analyzed imnediately after
redrying and in most cases at intervals throughout a two~ycar storage
period. Analytical methods vere modified and designed specifically for
use with small quantities of tobacco as required. The'precision of all
routine analytical methods was determined.
The deta supported the following conclusions:

1. The precision of results obtained from replicate subsamples

taken from the hogsheads of experimental, tobacco was high.

° - -

2. Citric, malic and oxalic acids made up {com six to seven percent
of the dry weight of Flue-cured and from 11 to 14 percent of the
dry weight of burley tobaccos. .

3. The content of citric and oxalic acids was inversely related to
the quality of fluc-cured grades. This was especially truc
among the leaf grades where the highest quality grade always
contained less of three acids: than the lowest quality grade.

OS62Z SSTOS