e

  

7.

.

10,

11.

16.

17.

18,

~B~

Sic number of anacrobes present initially was less than one-half
the number of acrobes in most tobaccos. .

The number of microacrobes present initially was usually less
than the number of acrobes. They were equal to or greater

‘than the number of acrobes in 16 out of 64 samples examined,

In the 1954 crop of flue-cured tobaccos the number of acrobes
in all samples decreased or remained constant during the first
year and increased during the second year,

In the 1955 crop of flue-cured tobaccos the number of acrobes
in cight out of eleven samples increased in the first year and
decreased jn the second year and another sample increased
progressively both years.

Increases in the number of bacteria occurred at some time during
two years of aging in about two-thirds of the flue-cured samples
of the 1954, 1955, and 1956 crops.
Increases in the number of aerobes were also shown to occur
during the third year of aging in four out of five samples
examined, ‘

Less frequent but definite increases in the number of aerobic
bacteria were observed to occur in burley tobaccos.

. 7

Da akterein An enncentienn An bahnanann Anvine aninn ot INVA narvennt
wow eee Ae Sy Beppe seers On Stents kere TSN ea DON
moisture content,

The number of anaerobes usually decreased more rapidly during
aging than either the number of microacrobes or aerobes.

The initial coexistence in burley tobacco of relatively high,
citric ecid content and number of bacteria in excess of 5 X 10
invariably resulted in the disappearance of 10 percent but not
more than 15 percent of the citric acid during aging for two
years. TVhe number of bacteria diminished drastically and this
occurred simultaneously with the disappearance of the citric
acid. :

5
/g.

.

In gencral, a relatively large number of bacteria was associated
with a‘relatively low nicotine valuc, although no clear-cut
consistent corxvelation was evident.

a . --
Low bacterial counts [rom tobaccos of the Winston-Salem Narket
invariakly corresponded to a high nicotine value for cach grade.

There was no apparent correlation between the number of aerobic

‘bacteria and the nicotine content present initially or to
‘changes thereof during the aging of burley tobacco.

¥S9ZL SSTOS