Muy 9, 1958

A SUMMARY OF THE QUANTITATIVE CHANGES WHICH OCCUR a
IN SOM OF ‘INE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CONSTITUENTS

aoe

OF JOUACCO PURLNC TH NATURAL AGING PROCESS

SAMPLING + .

For a period of seven years, tobacco samples representative of each crop
year were taken to study the quantitative changes which occur in fone of
the chemical and biological constituents of tobacco during the natural
aging process. Both fluc-cured and burley tobaccos were taken fron the
major growing regions from 1952 through 1958. €pecific markets were
selected which wore widely separated and considered to be representative
of the major bulk cf fiucrcurcd and barley: tobaccos purchased by the
Company. Samples fer the aging project were taken from these szaine

markets each year. The belts and markets which wore selected were

(1) GEORGIA - Blackshear Market, (2) SOUTH CAROLINA ~ Mullins Market,

(3) BASTERN CARGLINA ~ Kinston Market, (4) OLD BELT - Winston-Salem Market,
(5) TENNESSRE - Greeneville Market, and (6) RKENIUCKY ~ Bloomfield Market.
Samples representative ef both lug and lcai types of ‘tobacco were included
as sampling variables.

7

a
°
~
uO
wn
N
Pa
&
~“

A practical core sampling preceduxe was developed to provide subsannles
from experimental hogsheads for laboratory analyses. It was shown that
the core sanpling procedure used in this work yielded representative and
repradunihte saanles- Samales for both chernical and microbiological
analysse wore taken using essanticlly the sane precedure; the only
aiffermer being that a completely sterile coring apparatus was usec Lor
taking the saxples for microbiological analyses. Tobacce core samples
vere also used for the purpose of making cigarcites for subsequent sisoking
tests during the aging study. The apparatus used for taking the core
samples was an electric power drill and a hollow auger fitted with 2 sharp
cutting edge. ” ,

ROUTING CHENTCAL) ANALYSES :

ROUT I Glee AOE

A quantitative evaluation of total alkaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen,
potassium, chioride, leaf moisture, and pil (slurry) in aging tobacco was
nade for six crop years (1953~1958), After redrying, the hogshead
sanples were placed in warehouse storage for natural aging. Subsanples
were teken at periodic intervals, curing the natnral aging preeess, and
analyzed for total alkeloids, nicetine, total nitregen, potassium,
chloride, leaf moisture, and pil (slurry).

. °
.

It was fou that the net changes which occur in these constituents of
fluceeured and burley tobacco, after two years of mtural eging, arc
characterized by sipntficant vet decieases in total ahiedoigs, aicetinc,
and pi (slurry), (see Ysbies XY and J). On the averege, Chere are no
significant net changes in total nitresen, potassium, or ciloride.
Siewificant changes other then net changes atso eceur in Local alhaloids,
wicoting, teral nitrogen, cd pn (slurry) curing the netured aging process

in Sluc-cured and buxley tobsccos,