heterodimer formation involving the neu/erbB2 tyrosine kinase and another member of the subclass 1

receptor family may be important for the action of heregulin. Recently, we have shown that the erbB3
rotein, alone, will serve as a receptor for heregulin (6), and that heregulin binding to erbB3 promotes the
‘ormation of an erbB3-neu/erbB2 heterodimer.

BROAD GOALS-BASED ON PREVIOUS RESEARCH EFFORTS
Over the past several years, our laboratory has examined the molecular mechanisms underlying the
activation of the tyrosine kinase activity of the EGF receptor and other members of the subclass 1 receptor
tyrosine kinases (8-11). Our data has indicated that receptor dimer formation is not absolutely necessary
or the generation of tyrosine kinase activity. However, receptor dimer formation is likely to be important
for the actions of these receptors and in fact one attractive possibility is that receptor dimerization facilitates
a transphosphorylation event that increases tyrosine kinase activity or enables the binding of a specific
phosphosubstrate: This possibility has some interesting implications regarding the potential for cross-
regulation via tyrosine kinase cascades. We feel that erbB3 may represent a new class of receptor
molecules that provides for the potential for dual regulation in growth factor signaling, specifically, by
enabling other receptors (i.e. neu/erbB2) to respond to unique ligands (heregulin) and by serving as a
target for transphosphorylation reactions that elicit the recruitment of specific substrates. We propose that
the EGF receptor, as well as neu/erbB2, can transphosphorylate erbB3 which expands the possibilities for
diverse sign ing pathways emanating from the subclass 1 receptor tyrosine kinases. Based on results
from our laboratory, we do not feel that the erbB3 protein is an active tyrosine kinase (12). However,
because of the presence of a number of candidate ( Tosine) phosphory ation sites within the carboxyl
terminal domain of erbB3, erbB3 may serve as an ‘adapter molecule’ in signaling pathways initiated by
the EGF receptor and neu/erbB2. Thus, the growth factor (EGF or heregulin) stimulated phosphorylation
of erbB3, within an EGF receptor-erbB3 heterodimer or an erbB3-neu/erbB2 complex, would serve as a
signal to recruit the next protein(s) in the signaling cascade. We suggest that one such protein is the src
tyrosine kinase because based on studies of different phosphotyrosine-SH-2 domain interactions (13), the
hosphorylated erbB3 protein would be predicted to form a tight complex with the SH-2 domain of sre.
e then envisage signaling cascades that are initiated by the binding of EGF to the EGF receptor, and/or
by the binding of heregulin to neu/erbB2, that result in the formation of heterodimers between these
activated receptor tyrosine kinases and erbB3, which in turn lead to the phosphorylation of erbB3 and the
recruitment and/or activation of the src kinase. This raises the possibility that the overexpression of one of
these receptors in lung cells could lead to the formation of heterodimeric receptor complexes in the absence
of the growth factor and thus give rise to aberrant growth signals. It also is interesting that the over-
expression of the src kinase in some non-small-cell lung cancers has been reported (14) suggesting that a
loss of the normal regulation of src may play an important role in the development of this epithelial tumor.
The proposed studies will focus on determining the role of the erbB3 protein in the actions of the
EGF receptor and neu/erbB2, with a particular emphasis being the implication of erbB3 (which is present
in lung) in signaling pathways that are relevant to growth control in lung cells and in the development of
lung cancer. Based on the overexpression of the EGE receptor and neu/erbB2 in certain Jung cancers, the
identification and biochemical characterization of the protein components that comprise the signaling
cascades of these receptor tyrosine kinases will provide potential therapeutic targets for countering the
development of tung, cancer. For example, the initial coupling of (activated) neu/erbB2 to erbB3 and the
interaction of phosphorylated erbB3 with c-src would represent new potential targets for intervention. The
studies outlined in this proposal will involve a systematic examination of the interactions of the EGF
receptor and the neu/erbB2 tyrosine kinase with the erbB3 protein in well defined systems. Recombinant
erbB3 proteins will be used to develop biochemical reagents (antibodies, limit domains) that might be
useful in modulating EGF receptor or neu/erbB2 signaling through the erbB3 protein.

SPECIFIC AIMS

1. Biochemical characterization of the interactions of the EGF receptor with erbB3.
Various lines of evidence have suggested that members of the subgroup 1 receptor tyrosine kinases
undergo dimerization events that are essential for their signaling pathways. In this series of studies, we
intend to biochemically characterize the interactions of the EGF receptor with the erbB3 protein. Insect cell
expression systems have been developed for the EGF receptor and the full length erbB3 protein and
expression systems for different glutathione-S-transferase igs) fusion proteins containing different
forms of the erbB3 extracellular and cytoplasmic domains are currently being established. Specific
monoclonal antibodies against different portions of the recombinant erbB3 extracellular and cytoplasmic
domains also will be generated. Purified preparations of the recombinant EGF receptor and the different
erbB3 proteins will be inserted into phospholipid vesicles to examine the ability of the EGF receptor to
bind to and phosphorylate different forms of erbB3 in well defined reconstituted systems. The erbB3
extracellular domain (ED), different truncated forms of the erbB3 ED and cytoplasmic domain, and erbB3

50665810