PROJECT DESCRIPTION
TITLE: Role of the erbB3 protein in growth factor-coupled signaling

BACKGROUND
It is well accepted that cancer is the outcome of a loss of regulation at one or more points of a growth

factor-coupled signal transduction pathway. This has generated a great deal of interest in understandin
the sequence of events that leads to a mitogenic response. In this "Background section", I first wi

resent a brief overview of the superfamily of growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases that have been
implicated in human cancers, and in particular, in lung cancers. This will be followed by a general
description of our proposed studies (based on hypotheses that are put forward from our ongoing research)
and the specific aims of the proposal.

Subgroup 1 receptor tyrosine kinases-The subclass 1 growth factor receptor tyrosine kinases (1)
include the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor, the neu/erbB2 tyrosine kinase (also designated
HER2), the erbB3 protein (HER3), and the erbB4 protein (HER4). Each of these proteins appear to be
comprised of a single olypeptide chain (My; ~ 170-180 kDa) that includes a cysteme-rich extracellular
(growth factor bin ind domain, a single membrane-spanning helix, and a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase
domain that contains a number of potential autophosphorylation sites. The first important step in the
signaling pathways of these receptors is the translation of the growth factor binding event into the
activation of tyrosine kinase activity. An immediate outcome of this activation event is the
autophosphorylation of the receptor which in turn serves to recruit cellular Bhosphosubstrates and initiate
signaling cascades that lead to the nucleus. It has now been well established that proteins that contain the
src-homology region 2 (SH-2 domains) bind to the autophosphorylated growth factor receptors. An
important challenge is to understand how these binding events initiate the various signaling pathways that
emanate from a given receptor, as well as to identify other proteins that participate in these signaling
pathways and determine how these pathways are integrated to give a biological (growth) response.

Relevance of subgroup 1 receptor tyrosine kinases to lung cancer-

A number of lines of evidence have implicated subclass 1 receptors in different types of cancer. For
example, the amplification of the neu/erbB2 tyrosine kinase has been found in 15-40% of primary breast
carcinomas and 30% of ovarian carcinomas and appears to have a significant predictive value for the
overall survival of patients with breast cancer (2). In various lung cancers, both the EGF receptor and
nev/erbB2 have been found to be overexpressed (3,4). The presence of the EGF receptor to a significantly

eater extent in non-small-cell lung cancer and squamous carcinomas compared to non-squamous tumors
3) has been demonstrated. The levels of EGF receptor were related to the stage of spread of the lung
tumors. In fact, the demonstration of a high concentration of EGF receptor in the worst prognosis non-
small-cell lung cancer led to the suggestion that this receptor, or components of its signaling pathway,
might serve as a potential target for therapy (3). It also has been suggested that the expression of the
nev/erbB2 tyrosine kinase in lung cancers is of potential prognostic importance (4). Expression of
neu/erbB2 occurs in both squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas of the lung and at higher levels
than in uninvolved bronchiolar epithelium; moreover, in adenocarcinomas, the expression of neu/erbB2 is
independently associated with a shortened survival.

Mechanisms of receptor activation and aberrant signaling-

Obviously a key question concerns how the overexpression (or amplification) of these receptor
tyrosine kinases leads to uncontrolled cell growth. The detection of normal basal mucosal staining in the
lung for EGF receptor (3) led to the suggestion that these stem cells of the mucosa may require EGF for
proliferation and differentiation to normal mucosal cells. If EGF receptor activity, and/or neu/erbB2
activity, were necessary for the normal growth of lung cells, then events that result in the overexpression
of these receptors could elicit an overamplification of a growth signaling pathway and thereby initiate
tumorigenesis. It is tempting to speculate that this may occur because increased levels of the EGF receptor
or neu/erbB2 would stimulate (in a growth factor independent manner) receptor-receptor interactions. A
number of lines of evidence now indicate that the ability of subgroup 1 receptor tyrosine kinases to
dimerize (i.e. form homodimers or heterodimers) provides for the initiation of diverse signaling pathways.
For example, the formation of an EGF receptor-neu/erbB2 heterodimer results in an EGF-stimulated
tyrosine phosphorylation of the neu/erbB2 protein and enables the EGF receptor and neu/erbB2 to act
synergistically to transform mouse fibroblasts (5).

e have obtained evidence for another type of heterodimer formation, specifically between
neu/erbB2 and the erbB3 protein (6). These studies were initiated because of the findings that the putative
ligand (growth factor) for neu/erbB2, designated heregulin (also called neu differentiation factor) (7),
could bind to neu/erbB2 in some cells (cg. mammary carcinomas) but not all cells (fibroblasts). Given
the tendency of the members of the subclass 1 receptors to form heterodimers, it seemed possible that

50665809