The Journal of Immunology

array of possible AP-1 complexes. However, the physio-
logic regulation of AP-1 composition remains unknown
and receptor-specific expression of individual AP-1 pro-
teins remains relatively unexplored. This represents an im-
portant issue because specific Jun/Fos heterodimers may
play unique roles in transactivation of AP-1 site-contain-
ing promoters. For example, AP-1 containing the short
form of FosB has been reported to be a transcriptional
repressor (17, 18), in contrast to other varieties of AP-1,
and AP-1 containing JunB has been noted to be less active
than AP-1 containing c-Jun (3, 22).

Two receptors of particular interest in mediating B cell
activation are the Ag receptor, slg, and the receptor for T
cell influences, CD40. B cell activation through the former
receptor dominates in the presence of T-independent (bac-
terial) Ag, whereas activation through the latter receptor
dominates in the response to protein Ags. Each of these B
cell receptors is individually fully capable of mediating
cell cycle progression. However, stimulation appears to
proceed via distinct intracellular signaling pathways, as
shown by sensitivity to various inhibitors and by the effect
of PKC depletion (23). These findings are consistent with
the reported inability to detect PKC activation in CD40-
mediated signaling, in contrast to its prominence following
B cell stimulation via slg (24). Using the early read-out of
NF-«B induction, we have demonstrated that slg and
CD40 utilize pathways that differ in PKC dependence al-
though achieving the same result (5, 25), again suggesting
that separate receptors use distinct intracellular signaling
pathways even as they bring about similar transcription
factor induction. The question remains as to whether the
induced transcription factor complexes are in all cases
identical or, alternatively, may be skewed in their compo-
sition depending on the triggering receptor.

To begin to unravel the relationship between expression
of AP-1 and subsequent downstream events that lead to B
cell activation, and to begin to elucidate the physiologic
tole of the potentially large number of AP-1 complexes
that might be formed, we sought to determine whether
specificity in the use of particular AP-1 components could
be demonstrated during receptor-mediated forms of stim-
ulation. The primary B lymphocyte system és particularly
suited to this endeavor because expression of AP-1 de-
pends on protein synthesis, and rapid induction of junB
and c-fos have been demonstrated following B cell stim-
ulation via slg (1, 26-29). To detect specificity in jun and
fos family usage, B cells were stimulated by cross-linking
anti-Ig Ab and by a cross-linked form of the CD40 ligand.
Initially, RT-PCR was used to detect induction of jun and
fos gene expression without regard to immunologic re-
agents, and results were then confirmed at the protein
level. This effort was successful in identifying two major
differences in the manner in which B cell receptors acti-
vate AP-1 components. First, we found that, although
anti-Ig and CD40L both stimulate junB expression, the
intracellular signaling pathways used to bring about gene

3301

expression differ. Second, we observed reccptor-specific
induction of fosB, in which anti-Ig produces a vigorous
response and CD40L mediates little or no expression.
These results demonstrate what appear to be physiologic
differences between B cell receptors that induce AP-1 both
in the components induced and the signaling pathways
used for that induction.

Materials and Methods
Animals

BALB/cBy] mice were obtained from The Jackson Laboratory (Bar
Harbor, ME).

8 cells

Splenocytes from 8- to 12-wk-old naive animals were depleted of T cells
by treatment with anti-Thy-1.2 Ab plus rabbit complement, as described
(30), and were then plated on petri dishes overnight to deptete macro-
phages. RBC and nonviable cells were temaved by centrifugation on a
cushion of Lympholyte-M (Cedarlane, Ontario, Canada). The resulting B
cells were cultured at 4 X 10°/ml in RPMI 1640 medium (Bio Whittaker,
Walkersville, MD) supplemented with 5% heat-inactivated FCS (Sigma
Chemical Co., St. Louis, MO), 10 mM HEPES, pH 7.2 (Sigma Chemical
Co.), 5 X 10 °° M 2-ME (Sigma Chemical Co.), 2 mM t-glutamine, 100
U/ml penicillin, and 100 jg/ml streptomycin.

RNA isolation

B cells were stimulated for various periods of time, rapidly chilled in an
ice-water bath, and washed twice with ice-cold PBS buffer. RNA was
isolated as described (31) with minor modifications, In brief, 20 x 10°B
cells were resuspended in 50 jul of PBS buffer and then lysed with the
addition of 1.6 ml of solution A, which contains thiocyanate (31), after
which RNA was extracted with chloroform/isoamy] alcohol and precip-
itated with isopropanol. RNA was treated with DNase, as follows. To
each dried RNA sample 5 U of DNase I (Boehringer Mannheim Corp.
Indianapolis, IN) was added along with 40 U of RNasin ribonuclease
inhibitor (Promega, Madison, WI) in 50 yl of DNase I buffer (25 mM
Tris-HCl, pH 7.4, 5 mM MgCl, 0.1 mM EDTA, and 1 mM dithiothrei-
tol), followed by incubation at 37°C for 30 min, RNA was then phenol
extracted followed by ethanol precipitation and then resuspended in 50 jul
of DEPC-treated water and A3,, determined. RNA was stored at ~80°C.

Reverse transcription

DNase-treated RNA was reverse transcribed to CDNA with oligo-dT. In
brief, t zg of RNA was treated with 200 U of Moloney murine leukemia
virus reverse transcriptase (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY) and 0.6
4M oligo-dT 18 (New England Biolabs, Beverly, MA) in 40 ja] of 1X first
strand buffer (Life Technologies) containing 0.25 mM of each of four
deoxynucleatide triphosphates (Boehringer Mannheim) and 10 mM DTT
(Life Technologies) and incubated at 42°C for 25 min followed by boil-
ing at 100°C for 5 min. The concentration of cDNA in each sample was
adjusted to yield similar amounts of praduct following quantitative PCR
with primers for @-actin (see Table I}, the variation of B-actin PCR prod-
uct between adjusted samples being within +5%, as judged by densito-
metric analysis of autoradiograms.

PCR

PCR was conducted with 1 yl of adjusted CDNA plus 1 U of Taq poly-
Merase and 2.5 4M of specific primer pairs in a 20-41 reaction volume
consisting of 1X Invitrogen PCR Optimizer buffer (Invitrogen, San Di-
ego, CA) plus 0.1 mM of each of four deoxynucleotide triphosphates
(Boehcinger Mannheim), 2 Ci of {a-P]dATP (6000 Ci/mmol; DuPont
Company-NEN Research Products, Boston, MA), and 0.1% Triton
X-100 (Sigma Chemical Co.). Amplification was conducted with a Per-
kin-Elmer 9600 thermal cycler (Perkin-Elmer Corp., Narwalk, CT) and
began with an incubation at 94°C for 2 min and ended with an extension
at 72°C for § min. Cycte durations were 1 min at 94°C, 1 min annealing,
and 70 s at 72°C with an additional 3s at 72°C incorporated with each