3308

is dependent on protein synthesis. This is especially rele-
vant because a substantial proportion of the FosB induced
following slg cross-linking consisted of the alternatively
spliced short form, which has been reported to yield AP-1
that not only fails to activate transcription, but also blocks
transactivation of AP-1 site-containing promoters by AP-1
composed of full length transcripts (17, 18), although this
has been disputed (16). Thus, our work suggests that AP-1
produced following B cell stimulation through slg may
express different, more limited, transcriptional activating
properties than AP-1 induced through the CD40 receptor.
We have been hindered in directly demonstrating this pos-
tulate by difficulty in transfecting primary B cells and the
inability to find a transfectable B cell line in which CD40
mediates nuclear AP-1 expression comparable with that
observed with primary B cells (3).

The junB gene was induced to similar levels by stimu-
lation through either receptor, and immunoinhibition stud-
ies indicated that JanB protein represents the major Jun
component of B cell AP-1. In particular, c-jun expression
was not detected, in keeping with a previous study from
this laboratory (28) and a study of c-jun knockout mice by
Alt and colleagues (41). Of the Jun proteins, c-Jun has the
highest affinity for the AP-1 site as a homodimer. In con-
trast, JunB binds so weakly that it essentially requires het-
erodimerization with Fos for DNA binding, and, of the Fos
proteins, FosB results in a more stable heterodimer than
c-Fos (40). The absence of c-Jun may then enhance tight
control of AP-1 regulation by virtually requiring het-
erodimerization for transcriptional activation, meaning
that AP-1 transactivation depends on the regulation of two
proteins rather than one. It has been demonstrated that
overexpression of v-jun/c-fos in vivo disrupts B cell de-
velopment (42); thus, B cells in particular may require
tight control of this complex.

The sIg and CD40 receptors diverged in the PKC de-
pendence of intracellular signaling for junB expression,
with the former being completely PKC dependent but the
latter only partially so. This suggests that CD40L induces
junB expression through two pathways, one of which is
PKC dependent. A model for this kind of regulation has
recently been described (43). In studies of mouse fibro-
blast cells, it was found that two serum response elements,
SRE1 and SRE2, confer serum responsiveness to junB.
SREI is activated by PMA, plateled-derived growth fac-
tor, and fibroblast growth factor, in addition to serum,
none of which stimulate SRE2. Moreover, PKC depletion
markedly inhibited activation of SRE1 but had no effect on
induction of SRE2 by serum. This kind of paradigm may
explain our observations in B cells were CD40 to mediate
JunB induction through two enhancers, only one of which
is activated through a PKC-dependent pathway, whereas
slg mediates junB induction entirely through the PKC-
dependent enhancer. In preliminary experiments we have
demonstrated transcriptional activation of a chimeric
4.5-kb junB promoter-CAT reporter gene construct (kind-

RECEPTOR-SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF Jun AND Fos

ly provided by Dr. E. Prochownik, Children’s Hospital of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA) in a B cell line; however, the
contribution of message stabilization to junB expression
has not been explored.

The origin of the differential regulation of fosB by slg
and CD40 is even more obscure, because the fosB pro-
moter has been reported to contain similar enhancer se-
quences to those found in the c-fos promoter (44), yet c-fos
is induced by both sIg and CD40. In preliminary experi-
ments with the PO fosB promoter CAT construct, kindly
provided by Dr. R. Bravo, transiently transfected into
BAL-17 B cells, reporter gene expression was observed
following stimulation with anti-Ig but not with CD40L
(although both stimuli induced a «B-dependent reporter
gene construct, Ref. 5; data not shown), This suggests that
fosB expression is transcriptionally controlled in B cells,
and that elements activated by slg are not activated by
CD40. Additional study of the elements involved in fosB
expression, particularly in comparison with those required
for c-fos induction, may shed light on transcriptional
events that differ between the sIg and CD40 receptors and
reveal cis-acting sequences unique to fosB.

In demonstrating receptor-specific differences in recruit-
ment of AP-1 components by primary B cells, the present
studies suggest a potential mechanism for receptor-asso-
ciated differences in B cell responses. This work has also
demonstrated differences in the signaling pathways re-
sponsible for jun and fos expression used by the same
receptor. slg-mediated induction of junB and junD was
found to be PKC dependent, although sIg-mediated induc-
tion of c-fos and fosB was PKC independent. These ob-
servations suggest that multiple intracellular signaling
pathways are triggered by the B cell Ag receptor and that
the pathway revealed may depend on the read-out or
downstream event analyzed,

Acknowledgment

The authors thank Dr. Rodrigo Bravo for kindly providing anti-Jun and
anti-Fos reagents and for helpful discussions.

References

1. Chiles, T. C., J. Liu, and T. L. Rothstein. 1991. Cross-linking of
surface Ig receptors on murine B lymphacytes stimulates the expres-
sion of nuclear tetradecanoyl phorbol acetate-response element-bind-
ing proteins. J. Lmmunol. 146:1730,

2. Liu, J., T. C. Chiles, R. Sen, and T. L. Rothstein. 1991, Inducible
nuclear expression of NF-iB in primary B cells stimulated through
the surface Ig receptor. J. fmmunol. 146:1685.

3. Chiles, T. C., and T. L. Rothstein. 1992. Surface Ig receptor-induced
nuclear AP-l-dependent gene expression in B lymphocytes.
J. Immunol. 149:825,

4. Xie, H., T. C. Chiles, and T. L. Rothstein. 1993. Induction of CREB
activity via the surface Ig receptor of B cells. J. Jmmunol. 151:880.

5. Francis, D. A, J. G. Karras, X.-Y. Ke, R. Sen, and T. L. Rothstein.
1994. Induction of the transcription factors NF-«B, AP-1, and
NF-AT during B cell stimulation through the CD40 receptor. nt.
Immunol. In press.