3302 RECEPTOR-SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF Jun AND Fos
Table |. PCR conditions
Butfers
Annealing Calculated Size
Genes Primer Sequences [MgCi,} pH Temperatures Cycles of PCR Products (bp)
f-actin GTCGTCGACAACGGCTCCGGCATGTG 2.0 mM 8.5 60°C 16 253
CATTGTAGAAGGTGTGGTGCCAGATC
funB CATCAACATGGAAGACCAGG 1.5 mM 9.0 68°C 25 655
TGCGTGTTTCTTCTCCACAG
junD CACGCAAGAACGCATCAAGG 1.5 mM 9.0 68°C 25 751
ACCGGCGAACCAAGGATTAC
c-jun ACAAGATGGACTGGGTTCGG 2.5 mM 10.0 60°C >30 487
ACAAACACTGGGCAGGACAC
c-fos TGGAATTAACCTGGTGCTGG 2.5 mM 9.5 68°C 30 458
GAGAGCAAGAAGGTGGTCGC
fosB AAAGGCAGAGCTGGAGTCGG 1.5 mM 10.0 60°C 30 634 and 494
GCACAGARAACCAGAGACGG

 

cycle. PCR reactions were optimized with respect to Mg** concentration,
pH, annealing temperature, and number of cycles. These parameters, as
well as number of cycles, varied for various transcripts and are given in
Table I, along with specific primer sequences. The number of PCR cycles
and amount of cDNA used were such that increasing amounts of cDNA
template yielded proportionately increasing amounts of specific PCR
product (data not shown). PCR products were size fractionated on 5%
polyacrylamide gels and visualized by autoradiography with preflashed
x-tay film. The identity of each PCR product was determined by expected
size and by restriction digestion. Autoradiographic images were quanti-
tated with a laser densitometer using volume integration as provided with
ImageQuant software (Molecular Dynamics, Sunnyvale, CA).

Nuclear extracts

Nuclei were collected following hypotonic lysis and extracts prepared as
previously described, using a buifer containing 430 mM NaCl, pH 7.9 (1, 3).

Electrophoretic mobility shift assay

TRE site (6’-TGACTCA-3’}-containing oligonucleotide was isolated
from pBSKS plasmid generously provided by Dr. Daniel Nathans (The
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD) and was end-labeled with
[?P]dATP, purified, and used as a probe in EMSA, as described (1, 3).
Binding reaction mixtures contained equal quantities of nuclear protein
for all conditions, amounting to 1 zg each, along with 1 xg of poly(dI-
dC) (Pharmacia Biotech Inc., Piscataway, NJ) and 10,000 cpm ?*P-la-
beled oligonucteotide prabe in a total volume of 12 yi with a NaCl
concentralion of 75 mM and pH 7.9. After 30 min at room temperature
the reaction products were laaded on 5% native polyacrylamide gels (1.5
mm) prepared in TBE buffer and electrophoresed for approximately 2 h
{until xylene cyanol had migrated a distance of approximately 6 cm).
Gels were dried and subjected to autoradiography. For immunoinhibition
experiments, 0.5 jug of Jun-specific Ab or 0.1 yg of Fos-specific Ab was
added to binding reaction mixtures 15 min before the addition of radio-
labeled oligonucleotide probe.

Western blotting

Wester blotting was conducted essentially as previously described (32).
In brief, nuclei were solubilized by boiling in 20 ul of 2X SDS gel
loading buffer (33) for S min and then centrifuged at 14,000 rpm for 10
min to remove debris. Supernatant material was size separated by SDS-
PAGE on 10% gels (34). Prestained protein m.w. markers (Life Tech-
nologies) were included in each gel. Proteins were transferred to Hy-
bond-ECL nitrocellulose membranes (Amersham, Arlington Heights, IL)
that were blocked and washed with 5% nonfat dried milk in TBS-T (20
mM Tris base, pH 7,6, 137 mM NaCl, and 0.1% Tween-2{1) and TBS-T,
respectively. Membranes were blotted with rabbit antisera specific for
murine FosB residues 102 to 117 or human c-Fos residues 3 to 16 (Santa
Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) and washed again with TBS-T,
after which bound primary Ab was detected by horseradish peroxidase-

linked secondary anti-rabbit Ig Ab and enhanced chemiluminescence
(Amersham).

Reagents

F(ab‘), fragmeats of GaMIgM were obtained from Jackson Immuno-
Research Laboratories (West Grove, PA). Soluble CD40L was obtained
as a fusion protein, consisting of the extracellular domains of CD40L and
CD8q, secreted by stably transfected JSS8L.cells (developed by Dr. Peter
Lane and colleagues and kindly provided by Dr. David Parker, University
of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, MA) (35). Anti-CD8 was
obtained from the 53-6-72 hybridoma cell line kindly provided by
Dr. Parker. Supernatants containing CD40L and anti-CD8 were used at
optimal concentrations (1:8 and 1:40, respectively) determined on the
basis of prolifcrative assays (5). Supernatants were handled as previously
described, which included dialysis against 25,000 m.w. cutoff dialysis
tubing to remove any lower molecular size cytokines that might be
present (5). Oligonucleotide primer pairs were obtained from Oligos Etc.
(Wilsonville, OR). Anti-Jun family Ab and Abs specific for JunB and
JunD were kindly provided by Dr. Rodrigo Bravo (Bristol Myers Squibb
Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Princeton, NJ). Anti-Fos mAb 14C1
was gencrously provided by Dr. Inder Verma (The Salk Institute, San
Diego, CA) (36). The isotype-matched contro] mAb 31-64 has been
described (37). PMA was obtained from Sigma Chemical Co.

Results

RT-PCR was used to elucidate induction of AP-1 compo-
nents to avoid reliance on the properties of immunologic
reagents that may not be completely specific, A series of
primer pairs were constructed to amplify those jun and fos
gene products for which murine sequences have been de-
scribed. The specific primer sequences used, along with
the corresponding amplification conditions, are provided
for each transcript in Table I. PCR reactions were optimized,
as described in Materials and Methods, such that increasing
amounts of cDNA template yielded proportionately increas-
ing amounts of specific PCR product (data not shown), Pri-
mary B cells were purified and stimulated over a time course
by anti-Ig Ab as F(ab’), fragments of GaMIgM or by soluble
CD40L-CD8q fusion protein cross-linked with anti-CD8 Ab
(CD46L), after which RNA was isolated and gene expression
quantitated by RT-PCR.