The Journal of Immunology
anti-Ig CD40L
s
&
a 2
20
as
2
£
g 4
o
as
£8
x3
£
& 204
Bos
a 7
es
a 3 10-
i 54
o-Lem pl
204
g
a 2 154
ue
$8
Bs
zy
0“ i
° g
Time (minutes)
FIGURE 1. Induction of jun and fos gene expression medi-
ated by slg and by CD40. Primary murine splenic B lympho-
cytes were treated with either F(ab’),GaMlgM at 10 pg/ml
{anti-Ig) or with CD40L/CD8e fusion protein cross-linked with

anti-CD8 Ab (CD40L; see Materials and Methods) for the indi-
cated times in minutes, after which B cells were harvested and
RNA extracted. Equal quantities of RNA were subjected to RT-
PCR (see Materials and Methods) to amplify transcripts for jun
and fos genes with a limited number of cycles and the condi-
tions described in Table |. Following densitometric analysis of
resultant autoradiograms, jun and fos expression were reported
as a proportion (fold induction) of the expression present in un-
stimulated (0 time) samples. There was no expression of c-jun;
expression of junB, junD, c-fos, and fosB is shown. Induction of
fosB is displayed in segments that correspond to the full length
form of fosB and the alternatively spliced short form of fosB
(denoted SF fosB). Note that data for all the jun and fos tran-
scripts shown here were derived from the same experiment, one
of two that gave comparable results.

Induction of jun gene expression is mediated by both
sig and CD40L

Both junB and junD transcripts were stimulated by anti-Ig
and by CD40L in a similar fashion (Fig, 1), with peak

3303

expression at 40 to 60 min followed by a decline to basal
levels by 24 h (data not shown). Notably, maximal induc-
tion of jutB was much greater than junD for both stimuli.
In keeping with previous results from this laboratory (28),
¢-jun was not detected following stimulation of primary B
cells, despite optimization of RT-PCR with RNA from
BAL-17 B cells that do express this gene (3).

Induction of junB expression mediated by sig, but
not CD40, is PKC-dependent

In related work we have found that sIg-mediated induction
of nuclear NF-«B is inhibited by PKC depletion, whereas
stimulation mediated by CD40L is PKC independent, sug-
gesting that different receptor-specific pathways are re-
sponsible for induction of this transcription factor (5). The
PKC dependence of junB and junD expression was tested
by evaluating inducible gene expression in B cells that had
been depleted of PKC by incubation with PMA at 100
ng/ml for 20 h, as described (25, 38). PMA briefly induces
junB and junD, but by 20 h expression of these genes has
retumed to basal levels (data not shown; the same was true
for the fos genes described below.) As shown in Figure 2,
PKC depletion completely eliminated induction of junB
by anti-Ig; at the same time, induction of this gene by
CD40L remained intact although peak induction was mod-
erately reduced by PKC depletion. The modest induction
of junD by anti-Ig appeared to be inhibited by PKC de-
pletion, whereas that by CD40L was difficult to judge
given the very low levels of induction of this gene. Thus,
in B cells, PKC depletion differentially affects inducible
junB gene expression in a stimulus-specific fashion.

Induction of c-fos gene expression is mediated by
both slg and CD40L and is not affected by
PKC depletion

Like the junB gene, c-fos was induced by both anti-Ig and
by CD40L and peak induction was relatively high (Fig. 1).
However, anti-Ig and CD40L differed consistently in the
rapidity with which c-fos was induced and the duration of
expression. In this and other experiments, anti-Ig produced
substantial induction of c-fos within 10 min and this ex-
pression remained elevated at least through 20 min, In
contrast, CD40L produced relatively high levels of induc-
tion later, at 20 min, and this level of induction was not
detected at any subsequent time point. Unlike the situation
with junB, induction of c-fos was resistant to PKC deple-
tion imespective of the stimulus (Fig. 2).

Induction of fosB gene expression is mediated by sig,
but not by CD40, in a receptor-specific fashion

Regulation of fosB expression differed from that of the
other transcripts tested. As shown in Figure 1, fosB tran-
scripts were substantially stimulated by anti-Ig with a peak
at approximately 40 min. In direct contrast to this vigorous