3304

anti-Ig CD40L

 

10+

junB
Fold Induction

 

 

 

 

JunD
Fold Induction

 

 

 

 

 

 

cFos
Fold Induction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

mos fosB

e 3 & SF fosB

= 104

gs

zg

Fs 6

oa
os j_lom qm fs
Sa288 CREB

Time (minutes)

FIGURE 2. Induction of jun and fos gene expression in
PKC-depleted B cells. Primary murine splenic B lymphocytes
were depleted of PKC by treatment with PMA at 100 ng/ml
for 20 h. PKC-depleted B cells were then treated with either
F{ab’),GaMlgM at 10 pg/ml (anti-lg) or with CD40L/CD8a
fusion protein cross-linked with anti-CD8 Ab (CD40L; see
Materials and Methods) for the indicated times in minutes,
after which RNA was prepared. Equal quantities of RNA were
subjected ta RT-PCR to amplify transcripts for jun and fos
genes (see Materials and Methods). Results for each transcript
are displayed as a proportion (fold induction) of the expres-
sion present in unstimulated (0 time) samples, as described in
the legend ta Figure 1. Note that data for all the jun and fos
transcripts shown here were derived from the same experi-
ment, one of two that gave comparable results.

induction of fosB through slg, B cell stimulation with
CD40L had very little effect on fosB expression, such that
in some experiments no induction of fesB was evident
with CD40L, while in other experiments minimal induc-
tion was observed. Considering the levels of induction
across four experiments, there was an 84 + 1.3-fold
(mean + SEM) difference between the extent to which
fosB was induced by anti-Ig and by CD40L. Thus, fesB

 

RECEPTOR-SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF Jun AND Fos

anti-Ig
CD40,
M 20° 40' 60° 20' 40' 60' 20° 40' 60’

me AL wae — tnd — fosB
~ — fs — _ — a sss

FIGURE 3. Induction of the alternatively spliced short form
of fosB by the combination of anti-lg plus CD40L, Primary
murine splenic B lymphocytes were treated with either
F(ab"},GaMlgM at 10 ug/ml (anti-lg), CD40L/CD8e fusion
protein cross-linked with anti-CD8 Ab (CD40L; see Materials
and Methods), or both (anti-lg/CD40L), for the indicated
times in minutes, after which B cells were harvested and RNA
extracted. Unstimulated B cells incubated in medium alone
(M) were handled the same way. Equal quantities of RNA
were subjected to RT-PCR with primers that span the alter-
natively spliced region of fosB, as shown in Table |, Ampli-
fied products corresponding to full length transcripts (634 bp)
and to alternatively spliced (short form) transcripts (494 bp)
are indicated (marked fosB and SF fosB, respectively).

anti-Ig CD40L

gene expression is regulated in-a receptor-specific fashion.
Furthermore, the failure of CD4 IL, to induce fosB appears
to represent a passive process rather than active suppres-
sion, inasmuch as the combination of anti-Ig plus CD40L
stimulated levels of fosB comparable to those produced by
anti-Ig alone, as shown in Figure 3.

Induction of fosB was resistant to PKC depletion (Fig.
2), in keeping with the characteristics of c-fos expression,
indicating a marked difference in signaling mechanisms
used by slg in activating fos, as opposed to jun, gene ex-
pression, the former being PKC independent and the latter
PKC dependent.

Inducible fosB expression is dominated by an
alternatively spliced short form

Alternative splicing has been reported to result in the pro-
duction of a short form of fosB, which typically represents
a minor component of fosB in a number of cell types (16-
18). However, in primary B cells, the bulk of fosB expres-
sion is represented by the short form. RT-PCR amplifica-
tion of RNA with primers that span the alternatively
spliced region demonstrated that the majority of slg re-
ceptor-mediated fosB induction corresponds to the short
form of fosB, as shown in Figures 1 and 3.

These results indicate two features of jun and fos induc-
tion in B cells that are receptor specific. Expression of
junB is PKC dependent when stimulated through the slg
receptor but relatively PKC independent when stimulated
through CD40. Expression of fosB is stimulated through
slg but is not stimulated through CD40. We sought to
determine whether these receptor specific differences
were apparent at the protein level by examining AP-1
complexes.