The Journal of Immunology

A
anti-lg CD40L

M 45! 2h 45! 2h Mw
— 74k

— 45kD

— 29kD

 

anti-lg CD40L

 

 

M30 2h 30' 2h Mw

— 74kD

   

mom 45k
— 29kD

FIGURE 7. Nuclear expression of FosB and c-Fos proteins
in B cells stimulated through slg and CD40. Primary murine
splenic B lymphocytes were incubated in medium alone (M)
or were treated with either F(ab’),GaMlgM at 10 g/ml (anti-
Ig} or with CD40L/CD8q fusion protein cross-linked with an-
titCD8& Ab (CD40L; see Materials and Methods) for 30 or 45
min (30° or 45’) or for 2 h. Cells were harvested and lysed in
hypotonic buffer, after which nuclei were collected and nu-
clear proteins extracted with SDS buffer. Nuclear proteins
were size separated by denaturing electrophoresis and West-
ern blotted with Abs specific for FosB or c-Fos. The locations
of FosB and the alternatively spliced shart form of FosB (SF
FosB; A) and the location of c-Fos (8) are indicated, as are
the locations of m.w. standards. Results are representative of
two separate experiments for each of the Fos proteins.

line levels, unlike anti-Ig, which produced substantial in-
duction of nuclear FosB protein, as shown in Figure 74. In
contrast, blotting with a c-Fos-specific antiserum showed
substantial induction of c-Fos as a result of B cell stimu-
lation via either slg or CD40 (Fig. 7B). These results in-
dicate that receptor-specific induction of fosB gene expres-
sion, observed by RT-PCR, is also apparent at the level
of protein expression. It is interesting to note that FosB,
like c-Fos, appears as a post-translationally modified
product of variable molecular size (16). In B cells, induc-
ible FosB proteins of larger molecular size appear only
later in the time course following stimulation, whereas
constitutive levels of these species are present at base line
as well. Enhanced, time-dependent, post-translational
modification of newly synthesized Fos proteins has been
noted before (16, 39).

3307

Discussion

In the present study, we examined receptor-driven stimu-
lation of primary B cells to determine the degree to which
jun and fos family members, the gene products of which
dimerize to form the transcription factor complex, AP-1,
are coordinately regulated during lymphocyte activation.
The consequences of sIg- and CD40-mediated signaling
were similar to the extent that each receptor was individ-
ually capable of inducing expression of junB, junD, and
c-fos. However, two critical points of divergence between
these receptors were observed. 1) The fosB gene was
found to be expressed in a receptor-specific fashion, being
substantially induced following sIg cross-linking, but not
(Le., almost an order of magnitude less) following CD40-
mediated signaling. 2) Signaling for junB was found to be
teceptor specific, with sIg-mediated expression being
completely PKC dependent but CD40-mediated expres-
sion only partially so. Studies of DNA-binding AP-1 and
nuclear proteins confirmed these differences at the protein
level. In aggregate, these observations represent the first
indication of differences in the recruitment of AP-1 com-
ponents that can be associated with physiologic, receptor-
driven means of stimulation in a primary cell system, and
they focus attention on FosB and JunB as regulators of
receptor-specific, AP-1-mediated, B cell responses.

In this work, we utilized cross-linked, soluble CD40L to
stimulate B cells through CD40. This was used as an en-
riched supernatant because of the difficulty in obtaining
active CD40L following affinity-based purification schemes.
For this reason, the precise quantity of CD40L in the super-
natant could not be determined; instead, the supernatant was
used at a dilution chosen for the ability to stain B cells and to
induce primary B cell proliferation comparable with that ob-
served with anti-Ig. It is worth noting that, in the present
work, peak levels of c-fos and junB expression were similar
for CD4O0L, and for anti-Ig-stimulated B cells, indicating that
the failure of fosB expression following B cell stimulation
through CD40 did not result from any deficiency in the
stimulus.

The inability of anti-FosB Abs, either those commer-
cially obtained or kindly provided by Dr. R. Bravo (Bris-
tol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute,
Princeton, NJ), to alter AP-1 nucleoprotein complex for-
mation in B cells led us to demonstrate receptor-specific
induction of fosB expression at the protein level by West-
em blotting of nuclear proteins. It is highly likely that the
FosB protein we detected resides in AP-1 nucleoprotein
complexes because the proportion of Fos protein that is
free (not dimerized) in cells is low (in contrast to the pro-
portion of Jun protein that is free), and because Fos and
Jun proteins associate in a nonpreferential fashion (39,
40). For these reasons, receptor-associated shifts in fos
gene expression are likely to alter the nature of resultant
AP-1, at least in primary B cells in which AP-1 induction