The Journal of Immunology

FIGURE 4. JunB and JunD representation A

in DNA-binding AP-1 induced through slg Untreated
or CD40 in normal and PKC-depleted B anti-lg

cells. Primary murine splenic B fympha-

cytes were cultured in medium alone (A) or M12 3 4 5 6

were depleted of PKC by incubation with .

PMA at 100 ng/ml for 20 h (B), after which
both groups of cells were incubated in me-
dium alone (M), or were treated with either
Flab’),GaMlgM at 10 g/ml (anti-tg) or with
CD40L/CD8qa fusion protein cross-linked
with anti-CD8 Ab (CD40L; see Materials
and Methods) for 4 h. Cells were harvested
and lysed in hypotonic buffer, after which
nuclei were collected and extracted. Equal
quantities of nuclear extracted protein were
analyzed by EMSA with an oligonucleotide B
containing a consensus TRE (AP-1 site). An-

 

3305

  

ti-Jun Abs were added to binding reactions ; PMA pre-treated
before electrophoresis as follows: lane 1, anti-Ig CD40L
na Ab; lane 2, broadly reactive Jun family- M 1 5 6 M12 8 4 5 6

specific Ab; lane 3, JunB-specific Ab; /ane
4, JunD-specific Ab; Jane 5, both anti-JunB
and anti-JunD Ab; and Jane 6, preimmune
rabbit antiserum. The principal nucleo-
protein complexes are marked by arrows
and designated 1 to 3; 3a represents JunB-
depleted activity and 3b represents junD-
depleted activity. One of two comparable
experiments is shown,

DNA binding, nuclear AP-1 containing Jun is
induced through sig and CD40

B ceils were stimulated with either anti-Ig or CD40L, after
which nuclei were collected and extracted as described in
Materials and Methods. Nuclear extracts were tested by
EMSA with an AP-1 site (TRE)-containing oligonucteo-
tide probe. As shown in Figure 4A, substantial induction of
nuclear TRE-binding activity was apparent following B
cell stimulation with either reagent. In both cases, ex-
tended electrophoresis demonstrated the presence of three
TRE-binding nucleoprotein complexes, the most highly
mobile of which (labeled 3 in the figure) is the most abun-
dant. Two of these complexes (the uppermost and lower-
most bands in Fig. 4A) were abolished when binding re-
actions were conducted in the presence of an antiserum
that recognizes all Jun family members (/ane 2), indicat-
ing that these TRE-binding complexes contain Jun pro-
teins. When a JunB-specific antiserum was added to the
binding reaction, the major portion of the predominant,
most electrophoretically mobile band was inhibited; this
inhibitory effect was focused on the lower portion of the
nucleoprotein complex (band 3b, lane 3). When a JunD-
specific antiserum was used, the predominant nucleopro-
tein complex was again inhibited; in this case, however,
the effect was focused on the upper portion of the complex

2 3 4

 

    

(band 3a, lane 4). Anti-JunD also led to inhibition of the
least mobile, uppermost complex. When anti-JunB and
anti-JunD were used in combination to inhibit nucleopro-
tein complex formation, virtually the entire predominant,
highly mobile complex was abolished (Jane 5). The effects
of anti-Jun Abs were specific inasmuch as preimmune rab-
bit serum did not alter nucleoprotein complex formation
(Jane 6). Thus, B cell AP-1 is dominated by a particular
nucleoprotein complex, the Jun component of which con-
sists for the most part of JunB along with some JunD.

Induction of Jun-containing nuclear AP-1 mediated
by sig, but not by CD40, is PKC-dependent

The two B cell receptors triggered in this study differ in
terms of the PKC dependence of intracellular signaling for
junB, a major component of B cell AP-1 (3, 28, 29, and
this study). In view of the immunoinhibitory results dis-
cussed above, if this difference is reflected at the protein
level, the slg-mediated induction of the JunB-containing,
predominant complex should be markedly diminished in
PKC-depleted B cells, whereas CD40-mediated induction
should be little affected. This is just what was observed
(Figs. 4B and 5). As shown in Figure 4B, in PKC-depleted
B cells the predominant, more highly mobile compiex