Receptor-Specific Induction of Individual AP-1 Components
in B Lymphocytes’

Li Huo* and Thomas L. Rothstein?**

Departments of *Medicine and ‘Microbiology and the *Evans Memorial Department of Clinical Research,
Boston University Medical Center, Boston, MA 02118

The inducible nuclear transcription factor complex, AP-1, typically consists of heterodimers between Jun and Fos
proteins. Although components are drawn from families of related molecules, little is known about the physiologic
regulation of jun- and fos-related gene products. In particular, it is not known whether expression of individual
family members is stimulus-specific or whether the same signaling pathways are responsible for induction of all
subunits. To clarify these issues, AP-1 components were examined following activation of primary 8 lymphocytes
through two separate receptors, the surface Ig Ag receptor, and the CD40 receptor for T cell influences. Both forms
of stimulation led to expression of JunB and JunD mRNA and protein; however, induction of JunB mediated by
anti-lg Ab was protein kinase C (PKC)-dependent, whereas induction mediated by CD40 ligand was resistant to
PKC depletion. The two forms of stimulation diverged even further with respect to Fos expression. Although both
stimuli induced c-Fos, expression of FosB was stimulus specific at both the mRNA and protein levels, in that this
component was induced by anti-Ig but not by CD40 ligand. Stimulated expression ‘of c-Fos and FosB was in all
cases PKC-independent. These results provide evidence for receptor-specific differences in the expression of AP-1
components, primarily with respect to FosB. They also indicate that separate intracellular pathways may be used
for induction of jun and fos gene products and that the same transcription factor (junB) may be triggered by two
surface receptors through separate pathways that differ in PKC dependence. The Journal of Immunology, 1995,
154: 3300-3309.

CREB, and AP-1° (1-6, 6a, 6b). The AP-1 complex con-
sists of two proteins that may be represented as homo- or
heterodimers and that bind the consensus sequence
TGACTCA (7). Constituent proteins are characterized by
the presence of a leucine zipper that is involved in dimer
formation and are drawn from two gene families, jun and
fos. Jun proteins may homodimerize or heterodimerize
with Fos protein to form DNA-binding AP-1; Fos is inca-
pable of homodimerizing or binding DNA alone. Well de-
scribed family members include c-jun (8, 9), junB (10),
JunD (11, 12), c-fos (13, 14), and fosB (15-18), which may
be expressed in two forms as a result of alternative splic-
ing, a full length version and a short form (16-18). In
addition, two Fos-related Ags, Fra-1 and Fra-2, have been
described (19-21) although sequences for the murine sys-
tem have not been reported. Clearly, the Jun and Fos fam-
ilies represent an extensive grouping that is of special in-
terest because of the large number of proteins from which
inducible AP-1 may be drawn and hence the extensive

eceptor interactions at the B cell surface leading
R to proliferative responses initiate a series of in-

tracellular biochemical events that eventuate in
alteration of the resting program of gene expression as a
result of nuclear changes that regulate transcriptional ac-
tivation. The likely mediators coupling cytosolic signaling
to transcriptional activation are sequence-specific DNA
binding proteins or transcription factors that express trans-
activating activity. In recent work we and others have
demonstrated that B cell stimulation is associated with in-
ducible nuclear expression or modification of several tran-
scription factor complexes, including NF-«B, NF-AT,

 

Received for publication September 16, 1994. Accepted for publication De-
cember 17, 1994,

The costs of publication of this article were defrayed in part by the payment of
page charges. This article must therefore be hereby marked advertisement in
accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 solely to indicate this fact.

' This work was supported by Grant 3062 awarded by the Council for Tobacco
Research-USA, Inc. and USPHS Grant Ai29690 awarded by the National In-
stitutes of Health,

 

3 Abbreviations used in this paper: AP-1, activator protein 1; sig, surface lg;

? Address correspondence and reprint requests to Dr. T. L. Rothstein, Boston
University Medical Center Hospital, Room £-501, 88 East Newton St., Boston, -
MA 02118,

Copyright © 1995 by The American Association of Immunologists

PKC, protein kinase C; CD40L, CD40 ligand; TRE, tetradecanoyl phorbol ac-
elate response element; EMSA, electrophoretic mobility shift assay; TBS-T,
Tris-buffered saline-Tween; GaMlgM, goat anti-mouse IgM; SF, short form.

0022-1767/95/$02.00