3306

PMA

Untreated pre-treated

Media
anti-lg
CD40L
Media
anti-Ig
CD40L

 

FIGURE 5. Effects of PKC depletion on B cell expression of
DNA-binding AP-1 induced through slg or CD40. Nuclear
extracts described in the legend to Figure 4 were analyzed by
EMSA with an oligonucleotide containing a consensus TRE
(AP-1) site without addition of anti-Jun Abs, to enhance quan-
titative comparisons between nucleoprotein complexes de-
rived from PKC-replete and PKC-depleted B cells. The prin-
cipal nucleoprotein complexes are marked by arrows and
designated 1 to 3. One of two comparable experiments is
shown.

(band 3) that normally contains JunB and JunD was com-
pletely absent following stimulation with anti-Ig. In direct
contrast, this complex was present in PKC-depleted B
cells stimulated with CD40L, and immunoinhibition con-
ducted with Jun-specific Abs showed that it contained both
JunB and JunD (see lanes 3 and 4). To demonstrate this
further, the nuclear extracts described for Figure 4, A and
B, were analyzed in a separate mobility shift assay, with-
out the use of anti-Jun Abs, to enhance quantitative com-
parisons between conditions (Fig. 5), Both anti-Ig and
CD40L induced substantially increased and comparable
levels of TRE-binding activity in previously untreated B
cells (Fig. 5, three left /anes), dominated by the most mo-
bile complex (band 3). As noted above there was virtually
complete loss of the predominant complex in PKC-de-
pleted cells following stimulation with anti-Ig (Fig. 5,
three right Janes), in comparison with the induction ob-
served with PKC-replete B cells. In contrast, the predom-
inant complex was substantially induced in PKC-depleted
B cells by CD40L to levels that were only a little less than
that produced in untreated B cells. These results indicate
that receptor-specific differences in intracellular signaling
for junB are reflected in differentially induced levels of
JunB-containing AP-1, strongly suggesting that induction
of junB gene expression directly influences B cell AP-1.

c-Fos is a component of sig- and CD40-mediated
AP-1

Both slg and CD40 B cell receptors mediate induction of
c-fos gene expression (Fig. 1). The corresponding c-Fos
protein product has been shown to be a component of sIg-
induced AP-1 on the basis of immunoinhibition of TRE-

 

RECEPTOR-SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF Jun AND Fos

CD40L
3.4

anti-ig
2 3 4 M 1 2

 

FIGURE 6, c-Fos representation in TRE-binding AP-1 me-
diated by sig and CD40. Primary murine splenic B lympho-
cytes were incubated in medium alone (M) or were treated
with either F(ab’),GaMlgM at 10 yg/ml (anti-lg) or with
CD40L/CD8e fusion protein cross-linked with anti-CD8 Ab
(CD40L; see Materials and Methods) for 4 h. Cells were har-
vested and lysed in hypotonic buffer, after which nuclei were
collected and extracted, Equal quantities of nuclear extracted
protein were analyzed by EMSA with an oligonucleotide
containing a consensus TPA response element (AP-1 site).
Abs were added to binding reactions before electrophoresis
as follows: lane 1, no Ab; fane 2, 31-64 control mAb (iso-
type-matched to the anti-c-Fos mAb); fane 3, 14C1 mono-
clonal anti-c-Fos Ab; and Jane 4pre-immune rabbit anti-
serum. The principal nucleoprotein complexes are marked
by arrows and designated 1 to 3. One of two comparable
experiments is shown.

binding nucleoprotein complexes detected by EMSA (3).
To demonstrate the relevance of CD40-mediated c-fos ex-
pression for AP-1 assembly, we followed the same ap-
proach as before, using the 14C1 monoclonal anti-c-Fos
Ab (36) with nuclear extracts obtained from primary B
cells stimulated by CD40L. As shown in Figure 6, both
sIg- and CD40-induced TRE-binding nucleoprotein com-
plexes were substantially inhibited by addition of 14C1
mAb to EMSA binding reactions, essentially to unstimu-
lated control levels. An isotype-matched, control mAb
31-64 (37) had no effect on nucleoprotein complex for-
mation. Thus, c-Fos is present in CD40-mediated, as well
as in slg-mediated, AP-1.

Induction of nuclear FosB protein is mediated by sig
in a receptor-specitic fashion

The two receptors studied differ markedly in terms of their
capacity to induce fosB. However, it was not possible to
assess the contribution of FosB protein to AP-1 directly,
by supershift or immunoinhibition of nucleoprotein com-
plexes, because the several FosB-specific immunologic re-
agents that we tested had no effect on TRE-binding com-
plex formation. To determine whether a receptor-specific
difference in expression of fosB existed at the protein
level, anti-FosB antisera were used in Western blot anal-
ysis of B cell nuclei, as described in Materials and Meth-
ods. CD40L produced little induction of FosB over base