RON BY ERIRT GOVT. RELATIONS aoe 7B POT LTE 286 5683 > te HD

-~ *

' Difranza's 32% share of market for Camel ig a grossly

        

   

 

~g~

inflated number. He showed students six consecutive Camel
ads priox to esking their brand preference. He also
included in these numbers the “favorite brand“ of those
students who admitted they don't smoke.

Results of a national survey conducted by the Centers for
Disease Control (CDC) in 1989 with 9,135 12-18 year olds,
released in March 1992, indicate that Camel's share of the
kids who buy their own cigarettes is 8.1%, preceded by
Marlboro at 68.7% and Newport at 8.2%. A March 1992 stud
commissioned by Advertising Age and conducted by BKG Youth,
a research firm that specializes in youth research, found
that Camel's share of underage smokers is 6%, their fifth
brand of choice. Despite its low ranking as a brand of
choice by kids in the survey who smoked, Joe Camel was
recognized by 90% of all the kids in the BKG study.

Youth amoking in America has been steadily declining over
the past 15“years, according to HHS. Since 1989, when the
Camel canpaign wes introduced, youth smoking haa continued
to decline. About &5% of American youth do not smoke. An
annual survey from the University of Michigan indicates a
35% drop in the past 15 years of high school seniors smoking
dally. The CDC report indicates 15.3% of kids smoked at
jeast one cigarette in the past 30 days; the BKG Youth
survey put it at 17%. °

A Children's Research Unit {uondon) study of 16 countries
found the youth amoking incidence higher in countries with
total advertising bans than in countries with advertising.
They found that peer influence and parental example are the
key reasons why youth smoke, which is consistent with
mamerous other studies. In December 1991, A»Gallup survey
of adult American smokers found the reasons they began
smoking to be: peer pressure (48%), family member smokes
(15%), advertising (1%), other/no opinion (36%).

Disapproval of smoking by youth has steadily increased while
incidence has decreased. Michigan found that 72.4% of high
school seniors disapprove of smoking, while BKG Youth found
that 76% of high school students considered it disgusting.

The same issue of the

Association that reported on Camel algo cites a proven
solution to curbing youth smoking: when there is compliance
with and enforcement of existing minimum-age purchase laws,
teen smoking drops as much as 50 percent. The tobacco
industry recognized this several years ago and developed the
"It's the Law" program to help retailers comply with state
laws. We've also worked to get the minimum-purchase age
raised to 18 in six atates this paat year, bringing to 45
the number of states prohibiting sales to under 18 year
olds.

ait

S602 BESTS