INTER-OFFICE MEMORANDUM
March 7, 1986
TO: Der R. Pugh
FROM: C. D. Mays, 8. F. Niven

SUBJECT: R.A.N. Project Extraction Programs

Dr. W. Y. Rice and A. J. Sensabaugh have recently conducted a series of
experiments which resulted in cigarette smoke condensate displaying markedly
reduced biological activity. These experiments involved the application of
aqueous burley extract to flue-cured tobacco and preparation of cigarettes
from the resultant treated flue-cured tobacco. Biological activity -was
determined through use of Ames tests.

Investigation and developm t of this concept and a likely process for making
‘ees biologically active yet flavorful smoking products will include
accitional experiments tsiaqg various solvents and extraction practices.
~ ent meetings with Gr. Rice cleared the way for us to begin extraction

-ties of sizable semples. We are to extract, or to have extracted by
contracted means, at least three grades of burley tobaccos (must include KJOX)
and use the extract to enhance three grades cf flue-cured tobaccos. Smoke
condensate from resulting test cigarettes (burley extract enhanced flue-cured)
will be given to Dr. Rice for biological assay.

we also understand that perhaps some or all the test Cigarettes should use
expanded tobacco. We have just written a preliminary disclosure of a process
invention covering the means for extract enhancement and friling value
increase of tobacco/tobacco flavored material. In all iikelinocd, development
anc commercialization of this new process will require and Justify design and
construction of a bench scale pilot plant to be located either here or at
Avoca,

We expect to begin extracting samples using conventional practices here this
month and we are hopeful that the patent disclosure memorandum wil] clear the
way for us to engage Muller Extract Company, GMBH for supercritical
extraction/expansion studies. These studies wili both provide test material
fur the RAN investi~-tisns and design knowledge to be needed for the likely
pilot plant program.

Pe Cho $y age

B. Frank Niven Chariie ". Mays

Merricks
Teague
McKenzie
Rice

xC:

R
R.
i

IT RD

 

L£Ebb LO9OS