Biochemistry: Hagman and Grosschedl

 

Ets-2 Put
ges ee
Ss? £3

2

  

5 — 282

  

Fic. 3. DNA binding by the nuclear factor Ets-2 but not by the
related factor PU.1 is enhanced after deletion of carboxyl-terminal
sequences. (Upper) Electrophoretic mobility-shift assay of 32p-
labeled wt oligonucleotide probe (Fig. 1A) binding by in vitro-
translated proteins. wt, Full-length polypeptides. Ets-24C has a
deletion of 16 carboxyl-terminal amino acids, and similarly, PU.1AC
has a deletion of 13 amino acids from its carboxyl terminus. The
brackets indicate the position of specific protein-DNA complexes.
F, free probe. (Lower) #5S-labeled in vitro-translation products were
synthesized in parallel reactions, separated by SDS/PAGE, and
visualized by autoradiography. Apparent molecular masses of pre-
stained protein markers in kDa (BRL) are at right.

did not result in the appearance of any complexes with
intermediate mobility (lane 3), suggesting that Ets-1 binds
DNA as a monomer.

Transactivation of Gene Expression via the mb-J Promoter
ETS Binding Site. The functional relevance of ETS factor
binding to the MUF2 site was examined by cotransfecting
reporter plasmids, which contain three tandem wt or mutated
mb-1 promoter MUF2 sites adjacent to the c-fos/CAT gene
(3), together with the E26 v-myb/y-ets gene under the control
of the cytomegalovirus promoter/enhancer (Fig. 5). The Spi
binding site of the mb-f promoter, which is normally adjacent
to the MUF2-binding site, was mutated in both reporter
plasmids to limit the analysis to interactions with the MUF2
site. The polypeptide encoded by. the activator protein does
not include the v-myb DNA-binding domains (22) but does
contain a v-myb transcriptional activation domain (23). ‘Tran-
scriptional activation (12-fold; lane 2 vs. 3) by the v-myb-v-
ets fusion protein was observed only when the wt MUF2 site
was present in the reporter gene and only when the v-myb—-
v-ets fusion gene was expressed in the sense orientation.
Therefore, the MUF2 site in the mb-J promoter can act in
vivo as a functional binding site for ETS factors to activate
transcription. In contrast, little or no activation was seen
when the effector plasmids expressed other ETS family
factors, including full-length Ets-1 and PU.1 or the carboxyl-
terminally truncated Bts-1AC (data not shown).

DISCUSSION

We have shown that the functionally important nucleotide
sequence 5'-GAACAGGAAGTG in the early B-cell-specific

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 (1992)

Fic, 4. Ets-1 binds the méb-
promoter site as a monomer. Elec-
trophoretic mobility-shift assay of
2Pp-jabeled wt oligonucleotide
probe (Fig. 1A) binding by in vitro-
translated proteins. The structure
of Ets-1AC is described in Fig. 2A.
Ets-lANAC has deletions of 196
amino acids internally (37-231;
ref, 16) and 12 amino acids from
the carboxyl terminus. The two
cDNAs were translated separately
or cotranslated together as indi-
cated. F, free probe.

 

123 4

mb-1 promoter is specifically recognized by four different
nuclear factors in vitro; Ets-1 (v-ets), Ets-2, PU.1, and MUF2
(3). The latter protein appears to be distinct from the others,
based on its relative migration in an electrophoretic mobility-
shift assay. We have not yet determined which member of the
ETS family of factors is involved in.the regulation of md-/
gene expression. However, the early B-cell-specific activity
of the mb-/ promoter is likely to involve a cell-type-specific
factor interacting within the promoter region between —68
and +70 because deletion of more distal promoter sequences
that are recognized by an early B-cell-specific factor (EBF)
does not alter the pattern of promoter activity (24). There-
fore, due to their restricted expression in lymphoid cells, both
Ets-1 and PU.1 are likely candidates for regulating the
activity of the mb-1 promoter region.

Although Ets-1 binds the proximal promoter sequence at a
low level in vitro, we cannot rule out its putative role in the
regulation of the mb-1 promoter. DNA binding by Ets-1 can
be drastically increased by deletion of only 18 carboxyl-
terminal amino acids. This in vitro-generated enhancement of
DNA binding may reflect a mechanism that normally antag-
onizes the action of the carboxyl-terminal inhibitory domain
in vivo. Such a change in the ability to bind DNA could result
from posttranslational modifications of amino acids involved
in the inhibition of DNA binding. In this regard, nuclear Ets-1
is extensively phosphorylated in activated T (25, 26) and B
lymphocytes (27).

Alternatively, the binding of Ets-1 and/or Ets-2 may be
potentiated by dimerization with a second DNA-binding
protein. Heterodimerization could increase the DNA-binding
affinity of Ets-1 by protein-protein interactions and/or may
antagonize the inhibitory effect of the carboxyl terminus by
inducing a conformational change in Ets-1. Heteromeric
complex formation between ETS family members and other
factors has been observed. (i) The binding of Elk-1 (28) and
SAP1 (29) to nucleotide sequences that regulate the c-fos
promoter depends upon the interaction of these proteins with
serum response factor and DNA in a tertiary complex, and
deletion of an internal domain from SAP enhances the
ability of this protein to bind DNA in the absence of serum
response factor (29). (i) PU.1 may interact with a factor(s)
present in myeloma cells because the mobility of PU.1-DNA
complexes formed with a sequence within the « light chain 3’