——

Proc, NGtl. Acad. Sci. USA
Vol. 89, pp. 8889-8893, October 1992
Biochemistry

An inhibitory carboxyl-terminal domain in Ets-1 and Ets-2 mediates
differential binding of ETS family factors to promoter sequences of

the mb-I gene

(DNA-binding proteins/B-cell-specific gene expression)

James HAGMAN AND RUDOLF GROSSCHEDL

Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Departments of Microbiology and Immunology, and Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San Francisco,

CA 94143-0414

Communicated by Haroid E. Varmus, May 28, 1992 ©

ABSTRACT The mb-I gene is expressed only during the
early stages of B-lymphocyte differentiation. Here we show that
the mb-J proximal promoter region contains a functionally
important binding site for members of the ETS family of
DNA-binding proteins. We found that both the E26 virus-
encoded y-ets and the myeloid/B-cell-specific factor PU.1 bind
efficiently to this site in vitro. By contrast, Ets-1, the lympho-
cyte-specific cellular homologue of v-ets, and the related, more
ubiquitously expressed Ets-2 protein interacted weakly with
this binding site. DNA binding by both Ets-1 and Ets-2,
however, could be increased 20- to 50-fold by deleting as few
as 16 carboxyl-terminal amino acids. The inhibitory carboxyl-
terminal amino acid sequence is highly conserved between
Ets-1 and Ets-2 but is not present in either v-ets or PU.1.
Replacement of the carboxyl-terminal amino acids of v-ets with
those of Ets-1 decreased DNA binding by v-ets drastically.
Cotrapstation of Ets-1 transcripts encoding proteins of differ-
ent lengths suggested that Ets-1 binds DNA as a monomer.
Therefore, the carboxyl-terminal inhibitory domain appears to
interfere directly with DNA binding and not with homodimer-
ization, Finally, the functional relevance of ETS factor binding
to the mb-I promoter site was evidenced by the stimulation of
trarscription through this site by a v-myb-v-ets fusion protein.
Together, these data suggest that one or more ETS family
factors are involved in the regulation of mb-1 gene expression.

 

The B-lymphocyte-specific mb-J gene is a model for the
regulation of lineage- and stage-specific gene expression. The
mb-I gene encodes a 32-kDa protein that is required for the
expression of IgM molecules on the B-cell surface (for
review, see ref. 1). Specific mb-] transcripts have been found
only in cells that comprise the early stages of B-lymphoid-cell
differentiation (2). Tissue culture transfection experiments
suggested that proximal mb-1 promoter sequences. residing
between nucleotides —68 to +70 contain sufficient informa-
tion for early B-cell-specific gene expression (3). Analysis of
linker scanning and deletion mutations across this region
indicated the importance of at least two distinct nuclear
factor-binding sites for mb-! promoter function (3). Both sites
were shown to interact with ubiquitous factors in vitro. One
factor was identified as Spl, whereas the identity of the
second factor, termed MUF2 (b-/ upstream factor 2), is
unknown. Interestingly, the MUF2 site is identical to a
sequence within the polyomavirus enhancer region (PEA3
site) that is recognized by the nuclear DNA-binding protein
Ets-1 in vitro (4). Ets-1, which is expressed primarily in
lymphoid tissues, has been implicated as a tissue-specific
regulator of transcription (for review, see ref. 5). Therefore,
the question arises as to whether Ets-1 or another lymphoid-

 

The publication costs of this article were defrayed in part by page charge
payment. This article must therefore be hereby marked “advertisement”
in accordance with 18 U.S.C. §1734 solely to indicate this fact.

8889

specific factor can bind the MUF2 site and participate in the
regulation of mb-! gene expression.

The ETS family of nuclear proteins is characterized by a
conserved DNA-binding motif referred to as the ETS domain
(6). Two members of the ETS family, the B- and T-cell-
specific Ets-1 and myeloid/B-cell-specific PU.1 proteins, are
expressed in a cell-type-specific manner that suggests a role
in the regulation of lymphoid-specific genes (7-11). By con-
trast, Ets-2, which is closely related to Ets-1, is expressed in
a wide range of tissue types and cultured cells (8, 9, 12). The
v-ets polypeptide is encoded by a transduced c-ers-/ gene
expressed by the avian retrovirus E26 as part of a tripartite
fusion protein, p135es-myb<ts (13, 14).

Here we report that Ets-1 and PU.1 bind the mb-/ promoter
in vitro, although with different efficiencies. We show that
this differential DNA binding is governed by the presence of
inhibitory carboxyl-terminal amino acids in Ets-1 and Ets-2,
which are absent in PU.1 or v-ets.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Plasmid Construction and i Vitro Mutagenesis. Plasmids
pv-etsHS4 and pv-etsHB2 contain either the Apa I-Stu I or
Hpa \-Bgl I fragments of pe-etsm (provided by J. M. Bishop,
University of California, San Francisco) for expression in
vitro (15). The murine c-ets-1 cDNA clone SKc-ets1.6 (16)
was provided by J. H. Chen (M.D, Anderson Cancer Center,
Houston). The murine Ets-2 (c-ets2-KS+) and PU.1 (PU.1-
KS+) cDNA clones were provided by R. Maki (LaJolla
Cancer Research Center). Mutations were introduced by
using oligonucleotide-directed mutagenesis (3) and primers:
pce-etsN385D, 5’-CAGTTTCTCATAATCCATCTTAG-
GTTTGT; c-etsI401V, 5'-CGTCTTGTGGATGACATTTT-
TGTCATAATAGTAGCG; pc-etsCAl, 5'-CGTGCAGC-
TCTTCAGGGATCGATCACAGCAGGCTCTGCAGG; and
PU.1AC, 5’-GGCCAGGCCCCCACGTC- ACTGCA-
GCTCGCCGCTGAACTGG. The plasmid pEts-I/v-ets was
constructed by insertion of the HindIII-Sal I fragment of
pe-etsm into SKc-ets1.6, and -pv-ets/Ets-1 was made by
insertion of the Eco47III-Not I fragment of SKc-ets1.6 into
pv-etsHS4, po-etsHCA (to make Ets-LANAC; see Fig. 4) was
constructed by deletion of the Hpa I fragment from pc-
etsCAl. EVE26S3 and EVE26A2 were made by subcloning
the 2.2-kilobase (kb) EcoRI fragment of pc-etsm into EVRF2
(17).

In Vitro Transcription, Translation, and Protein Analysis.
Plasmid DNA was transcribed in vitro, and RNA transcripts
were purified with Qiagen columns as suggested by the
manufacturer (Qiagen, Chatsworth, CA). Ets-2AC protein
was translated from RNA transcribed from c-ets2-KS+ DNA

 

Abbreviations: wt, wild type; CAT, chloramphenicol acetyltrans-
ferase; MUF2, mb-I upstream factor 2.