8890 Biochemistry: Hagman and Grosschedl

linearized with BspEI before transcription. Synthetic RNA (1
ug) was used in a 25-4] translation reaction with nuclease-
treated rabbit reticulocyte lysate (Promega) and unlabeled or
$-labeled (Amersham) methionine at 30°C. 35S-labeled pro-
teins were analyzed by using SDS/PAGE and autoradiogra-
phy as described (15). Quantitation of labeled protein was
done by using a Molecular Dynamics (Sunnyvale, CA) Phos-
phorlmager system and was adjusted for the number of
methionines per polypeptide.

DNA Binding and Electrophoretic Mobility-Shift Assays,
DNA-binding assays were performed as described (3), except
that sheared salmon testes DNA at 20 ug/ml was included.
Probe DNA was incubated without or with competitor oli-
gonucleotides together with labeled probe and 2 ul of trans-
lation products for 30 min at 20°C.

Transfection Assays. LMtk~ cells were transfected by using
the DEAE-dextran/chloroquine method (18) with 2 yg of
total DNA and harvested 42 hr after transfection, Chloram-
phenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) and luciferase assays were
done and quantified as described Q).

RESULTS

v-ets Specifically Binds Sequences Within the mb-I Pro-
moter, We have shown (3) that the nucleotide sequence
between —55 and —47 of the mb-J promoter is important for
promoter function. Moreover, this site is bound in vitro bya
ubiquitous factor, termed MUF2, detected in nuclear ex-
tracts G). Examination of the nucleotide sequence of the
MUF? site (Fig. 1.4) revealed a 9/9-base-pair (bp) identity
with a known binding site (S'-CAGGAAGTG, termed the
PEA3 site) for the nuclear DNA-binding proteins Ets-1 and
Ets-2 in the polyomavirus enhancer (20). To determine
whether this sequence can also serve as a binding site for
Ets-1-related proteins, we performed electrophoretic mobil-
ity-shift assays with a °2P-labeled duplex oligonucleotide
containing the MUF? site (Fig. 1A, wt). and in vitro-translated
Ets-1, Ets-2, PU.1, and y-ets polypeptides. Preliminary data
Suggested that each of these factors bound the DNA probe
specifically, although large differences in the level of factor
binding were observed (data not shown). The highest levels
of DNA binding were seen with a polypeptide composed of
only the v-ets segment (amino acids 85-491 of y-ets; ref. 13)
of the p135e8-myb-ets protein (Fig. 18, lane 2). DNA binding
by v-ets was inhibited by excess unlabeled wt (lanes 3 and 4)
and mutated mutl (lanes 9 and 10) oligonucleotides. By
contrast, the sequences mutated in oligonucleotides mut2
(lanes 7 and 8) and mut4 (lanes 5 and 6) are important for
binding by v-ets. An oligonucleotide containing the binding
site for Ets-1 identified within the T-cell receptor @ enhancer
(19) competed less efficiently for v-ets binding than did the wt
MUF? site (lanes 11 and 12).

Differential DNA Binding by v-ets Versus Ets-1. Because
v-ets and Ets-1 are nearly identical within their ETS domains
(83 of 85 amino acids are identical; a partial sequence is
shown in Fig. 2A), we expected that the cellular homologue
Ets-1 would bind this nucleotide sequence similarly. Ets-1
specifically bound the MUF2 site; however, the level of
binding was 50-fold lower than that seen for v-ets (Fig. 2B,
lanes 2 and 3) for similar amounts of protein (Fig. 2B, Lower).

To determine whether the relative DNA binding of Ets-1
and v-ets is influenced by the two amino acid differences
between their respective ETS domains, oligonucleotide-
directed mutagenesis of Ets-1 was done to convert one or
both of these amino acids to those present in v-ets (Fig. 2A).
The substitution of aspartate for asparagine at position 385
(numbered using the sequence of Chen, ref. 16) reduced DNA
binding to nearly undetectable levels (Fig. 2B, lane 4). The
substitution of valine for isoleucine at position 401 also
reduced binding by a factor of 20 (lane 5), and mutation of
both residues did not increase DNA-binding activity (lane 6).

Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 (1992)

A ~59  MUF2 -3B

wt TCGAGTGAACAGGAAGTEAGECaGAGLCCA
Mut] TCGAGTGAACAGGAAGTGAGTATGAGTCGA
Mul2 TCGAGTGAACATICAGTGAGGCGGAGTCGA
Mut3 ICGAGTGAACATNCAGTGAGTATGAGTCGA

mul4 TCGAGTTCCCAGGAAGTGAGGCGGAGTCGA

4
Fe)
B & wt mut4 mut2 mutt Tore Competitor
- ef 7 Tf 7f—_V fF
? fo Molar

€ 8 $8 FSES §

g¢ 8 excess

   

—v-ets

12345 67 8 § 011142

Fic.1. Specific binding of the mb-J Promoter proximal region by
v-ets in vitro, (A) Wild-type (wt) and mutant (mut) oligonucleotide
sequences. Oligonucleotides include. nucleotides ~$9 to —38 of the
mb-f promoter region as shown. Mutations are indicated in boldface
letters. The MUF?2-binding site is indicated. Electrophoretic mobil-
ity-shift assay of v-ets binding was done with the 22P-labeled wt
oligonucleotide in the absence or Presence of unlabeled competitor
DNA and ix vitro-translated v-ets. The murine T-cell receptor a
enhancer oligonucleotide has been described (19). F, free probe,

Therefore, the two mutations are not the only residues
responsible for the differential DNA binding by the two
proteins. Additional amino acid differences in more amino-
terminal domains may compensate for the negative effects of
D385 and V401 on DNA binding.

To examine whether the divergent carboxyl termini of the
two proteins (Fig. 2.4) govern the differences in DNA bind-
ing, we constructed plasmids for the expression of chimeric
Ets-1/v-ets polypeptides in vitro. Substitution of the 16
carboxyl-terminal amino acids of v-ets for the 12 terminal
amino acids of Ets-1 dramatically increased the level of DNA
binding relative to Ets-1 (Fig. 2B, lane 7). To test whether the
carboxyl-terminal sequence of v-ets directly participates in
DNA binding, we deleted 22 amino acids from the carboxyl
terminus of the protein. The shortened v-ets protein bound
the mb-1 site slightly better than did v-ets with the complete
carboxyl terminus (65- vs. 53-fold relative to Ets-1; lane 8 vs.
2), suggesting that the v-ets carboxy! terminus is not required
for DNA binding. Insertion of a translation termination codon
in place of the glycine residue at Position 423 of Ets-1,
resulting in the deletion of 18 amino acids (Fig. 2A), enhanced
the DNA binding of the Ets-14C polypeptide 36-fold relative
to native Ets-1 (Fig. 2B, lane 9). These results suggested that
the enhanced binding of the chimeric Ets-1/v-ets polypeptide
was due to deletion (or replacement) of the normal Ets-1
carboxyl terminus. To further substantiate this hypothesis,
we replaced the normal carboxyl terminus of y-ets with that
of Ets-1 (v-ets/Ets-1 in Fig, 2A). Binding of this chimeric