eS
> foo Hogh
RIR Interoffice Memorandum
Faget 72/9

Contact Cement

Subject: Use of Weldwood Date: February 29, 1988 (egy
Copy

To: Mr. Richard J. Hal} From: Or. Rob Harrington

Below is an evaluation of Weldwood Contact Cement manufactured by DAP,
Inc. (Dayton, OH). Scientific Affairs approves the use of this product to
secure gaskets to apron dryer doors. Product contact with this adhesive
should be kept to a minimum. This adhesive contains solvents that may cause
dizziness, headache and other health effect. Proper ventilation and the use
of rubber gloves are recommended when applying this adhesive.

This adhesive is composed of neoprene rubber in a 1,1,1 trichloroethane/
dichloromethane base.

Chloroprene rubber (neoprene or latex) is a polymer made from chloroprene
monomers, It 1s commonly used to waterproof rubber materials such as gloves,
coatings, belts, tires, etc, Chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene) is a color-
less flammable liquid with a high vapor pressure. Jn chronic Studies with
mice and rats, chloroprene monomer was determined not to be carcinogenic. It
is not considered to be a teratogen. Chloroprene is a respiratory tract irri-
tant. At very high levels it can cause respiratory depression and asphyxia.
At levels above 300 ppm chloroprene can produce toxic effects. The American
Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) has set a threshold
limit value (TLV) of 10 ppm for exposure in the workplace. Polychloroprene
rubber is essentially non toxic. It has an average molecular weight of
100,000. These polymers often contain sulfur. Pyrolysis products of the
monomer or polymer include hydrogen chloride (HC1), sulfur dioxide (SOo), car-
bon monoxide (CO) and small amounts of chloroprene, benzene, acetic acid. for-
mic acid, formaldehyde and various mercaptans.

1,1,1-trichloroethane (methyl chloroform) is a clear nonflammable liquid
with a very high vapor pressure. It has a low oral toxicity with an LD (le-
thal dose to 50% of the test population) of approximately 8 g/kg (ACGIH,
Documentation of Threshold Limit Values and Biological Exposure Indices,
1986). It may also be absorbed through the skin. Contact with methyl chloro-
form readily de-fats the skin and may Cause redness and scaling. Inhalation
exposures to 500 ppm for 7 hours a day for 6 months did not cause any adverse
effects in rats, rabbits or monkeys. High concentrations may cause anesthesia
and levels above 15,000 ppm may be fatal. It is not considered to be a car-
cinogen or a teratogen. Due to its low toxicity, the ACGIH has set a TLV of
350 ppm in the workplace. .

Dichloromethane (methylene chloride) is a colorless, highly volatile
liquid. It 4s used in paint removers, solvents, and degreasing agents. It
has a relatively low order of toxicity with an oral LDsg (lethal dose to 50%

NOTEQMAR 7 1988 HALL

8SEb6 O97TS