SCIENCE NEWS LETTER
July 8, 1961

MEDICINE

Virus Link to

Cancer

Viruses have been shown to bind together cancer-
causing materials in test tubes. Researchers believe viruses
serve as carriers of the cancer agents, Faye Marley reports.

> \ FRESH APPROACH to the cancer
problem was affered to physicians atten.
ing the American Medteal Association con
sention in New York in a report linking
commen human viruses wrth the diseuse.

Drs. Cheietopher M. Martin, Sigmundur
Magnuson and twe medical students, all
of the Setun Hull Cullege of Medicine in
Jersey City, N. J, reported studies in mice
that may pesibly apply to cancers includ.
ing leukemia (bloud cancer). lymphomas
(Rimph-gland cancers) und Abrosareomas
(vonnective of scar-tissuc Cancers).

The reseirchers built on presivus work
dene as carly us (44 in pioneer experi-
ments at the Rockefeller Instirute by Drs.
Pevtun Rous and W. F. Fiiedewald, and
at Yale Univeraty bs the hare Dr. F Duran-
Revnals and by Mrs. M. L. Duran Reynals.

The amvestigutors injected nice with
nuderate duces of polinvirus type two,
wath vaccine irae (used for smallpox
Aaccinanion), ar wo ruses: Causing
variety of grippe-like diseases—Coxsachic
B4 and ECHO npe%—and found that they
developed no significant disease.

Mice given very small duses of either
of wo. cancer-causing = compounds—9,10-
dimethy|-1.2-benzanthracene (DMBA) and
Juamino-Auorene—ler cluped neither disease
ner tumors.

Then Dr. Martin and brs colleagues tried
ising the came dises af one af the viruses
and one of the carcinogens with the result
that a varietw of cancers developed in’ the
nice.

The next step wast to inmunize a group
of mice against vaccinia virus, rendering
them highly resistant to vaccinia infecrion.
Thev then compared the effect of injecting
Saneinia vires plus DMBA inte these pre
tected mice and) inte non ummiunized mice
SUID susceptible to sacemia, and found: thie
cancers eccucred only ins the nonimmiun
ized. vaccinia susceptle ince.

Dr. Marta said) dit hwo adding caremne
mea tagged wath cadnarctve carbon Ld
ates to solutians of hight qomentrsted.
punthenl aires. thes were able te show
that ccirases bal commie quamniues of
qaramegens ain the test tubes. The cancer
carping cuiras cota the ability te ray ccs
cals. whe the rescarlers Ihave unter
preted too mm Ur Cemtnevnees  VEFUSON GATE
SOTVGC AS Qe Meee Vecalors ap CULES, anil
Net pecihe ammunty gang the wars el
A arumegenaras pur weal progt
yenosc ie deeclopmeat of tiimors,

The vara HAgetor cargept, Une re
securchers Duhess. desersus auidy i oan,
mesmuinh om at anteduces the possibility
Gatos forms of cancer nan be preveat
We Uhrough sappressan at ule curr bs
Vaetbs | es

Nether cmtert ady yes aggeadtee dy

  

 

Dr. Stephen Rothman of the Unneriy of
Chicaga and Arganie Cancer Research
Hospital, which is operated for the Atomic
Fnergy Commission by the University.

Visting Uganda, Fast) Africa, with 21
ether physicians from all over the world
who attended a symposium at Makercre
College, Dr. Rothman found that a cancer
rare an this country is 200 umes more
prevalent in the Cungo, South Africa and
other pai’s of Africa where the climate is
consistently warm.

The disease, which acconypumies poor cir
culation and shows up first as dark, bluish
spots on the backs of the toes and Fingers,
1s called Kaposi's sarcoma

!

NEWARK NEWS
Newark, New Jersey
June 29, 1961

w1Hoo3G4

tonal Institule of Heal!
plained that man often ct
contact with these carcino

Show Virus
4 ° tiny amounts in industrial
Cancer Link sr

ee will ordinarily cause ca
laboratory animals.

Research Workers of Hepatliis Study

Seton Hall Team In another field, 2 hg
couraging development in’
Give Report tle against infectious he]

Stoff Ge-1e pandent. a rapidly growing ailmeni
NEW VORK=A Gear Men United States—was repo
fram Srinq Hall College of Mec! im by § Chicago 5
cine in derses Cry N.J., toclsy Mareen es vsaryea
resented findings linking com as
aon Suman viruses to cancer in involving the inoculalion «
mice ani possibly apening « 175 inmate-volunteers at
“fresh approach to the human State Penitentiary at Joli
rancer problem " Dr. Joseph D. Boggs cite

The team of Dr. Christopher "findings:

Marlin, assistant professor °° 1—Wepatitis viruses hav

mpdicine and director of the ci. tracked down and “Isolat

itsion cot mlectuous diseases; D 2—These viruses have bi

Srammunedur Magnusson, a research cessfully nin an:

fellow in the sion: and med tures In Brown in um
zal students ip J. ciens

and Geald F. Hansen, reported anther introduced

an their research at an American hepatitis

Nedical Association forum at the “a” woskened viruses tak
oliseum.

They said the studies with mice hopatltis, victims and &
indicated that human viruses C8 srubadias counter:
vick up small amounts of cancer- —
sioducing chemicals called car- Viruses and apparent:
uinngens. and hy carrying them immunity.
inte cells slarl the cancer process.

Dr. Martin. who headed the
lwo-year study financed by the
US Public Health Service's Na-