1

w

 

aaa eeGQuee —

 

pharmacological antagonists to block the nicotine response are being
assessed. This information will help to determine whether or not the
response is mediated by nicotinic receptors.

Nicotine Neurophysiology - Dr. Allan Collins forwarded a report covering
results of his studies of nicotine’s effects on stress in strains of mice.
In brief, the results are as follows: The ‘stress hormone’ corticosterone
interacts directly with nicotine receptors in the brain, and decreases
their affinity for nicotine. Corticosterone appears to produce tolerance to
nicotine’s effects by decreasing receptor sensitivity. Nicotine has
measurable anti-anxiety effects in mice. Dr. Collins’ results are
attracting much attention in the scientific community because of their
potential to explain certain aspects of tolerance and anxiety reduction in
smokers.

Analog Research Program - A research plan outlining a collaborative
research effort was sent to Dr. Richard Effland, Director of Medicinal
Chemistry at Hoechst-Roussel Pharmaceuticals, Ine. This plan was formulated
during recent meetings with Hoechst personnel at RUIRT. Information for the
Hoechst researchers is being assembled. It will include details of the
CONAR data base and any references to beneficial links between nicotine and
Alzheimer’s disease. Hoechst personnel are expected to identify compounds
for testing.

Miscellaneous ~ Mr. Roger Jennings became a full member of the Society for
Neuroscience. This required nomination by two scientists and consideration
by the Neuroscience Council. The Society exists to advance understanding of
nervous systems and the roles they play in determining behavior.

The poster abstract "No effect on the EEG of a cigarette yielding typical
‘tar’ and carbon monoxide levels but minimal nicotine”, by J. Robinson, W.
Pritchard and R. Davis, was submitted to the PPRC. We plan to present the
poster at the 1990 meeting of the Society for Psychophysiological Research
in Boston, MA in October. .

Revision of Dr. Wally Pritchard’s manuscript ‘’Electroencephalographic

Effects of Cigarette Smoking’, in accord with suggestions of the reviewers
for Psychopharmacology, is ongoing.

£80G 6610S