DRAF'?-DRAFT-DRAFT—-DRAFT~-DRAFT-DRAFT-DRAFT—-DRAFT—DRAFT—-DRAFT—-DRAFT
HIGHLIGHTS DATE: April 24, 1990
BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH -

Psychophysiology of Smoking - Integration of analytical chemistry data with
EEG, heart rate, task-performance, and mood/feeling rating data from the
1989 EEG study was begun. Subjects were segregated into 3 groups based on
pre- to post-smoking plasma nicotine ‘rise’. Appropriate analyses of
Variance are underway.

Drs. Reynolds, Robinson, and Pritchard met discuss a study to determine the
optimal structure for DFC (Desire For Cigarette) measurement. Ina
subsequent meeting, Drs. Robinson and Pritchard planned the detailed
experimental design.

Basic Sensory Research - Evoked brain potentials, respiration, and sensory
data were collected from one subject during exposure to nicotine. This
session completed collection of required evoked potential data for 6
subjects. Collection of data from subject 5, an in-house volunteer, is all
that remains for the completion of this phase of the work.

Mr. Roger Jennings prepared computer files of sensory attribute data on ETS
chemicals from recently published reports. Sensory information on
chemicals in ETS will be incorporated into a relational database that
contains other information on the compounds. The data base will be used to
answer end-user questions on specific chemicals or sensory characteristics.
UNIFY database software, currently on the Biobehavioral Division’s SUN
computer, was evaluated by Mr. Jennings for use with the ETS data.

Dr. Jim Walker attended the 12th annual meeting of the Association of
Chemoreception Sciences. He presented a paper entitled "Effects of Odorants
on Respiratory Behavior and Nasal Patency." It was timely, owing to a
great deal of interest by meeting participants in the question of perceived
irritation in humans. The following were noted at the meeting: an increase
in research on primate gustatory and olfactory systems, renewed interest in
"taste" sensations mediated by the olfactory system, increased
representation of manufacturers of fragrances and others who use fragrances
to enhance product appeal, increased competition among NIH-funded
chemosensory centers, increased interest in the "olfactory deficit" in
Alzheimer’ Ss disease, sophisticated use of voltage-sensitive dyes and video-
imaging techniques, interest in the measurement of human respiratory
behavior, an increase in the number of industrial chemosensory scientists
conducting psychophysical studies, an increase in the number of
chemosensory scientists in consumer product R&D, and increased interest in
odorant-evoked potentials.

Smoke Component Dose - Mr. Davis sought information from Dr. Brian Lawrence
and Mr. Brian Smeeton (P&AT) about tea cultivation and the use of nicotine
sulfate as a pesticide. Mr. Davis is preparing to survey a number of teas
for potential nicotine content. We and others have observed nicotine in
teas previously.

Nicotine Receptor Pharmacology - Dr. Eric Fluhler continued to characterize

 

the effects of nicotine on calcium flux in synaptosomes prepared from adult ~~

rat brain. Results indicate that micromolar concentrations of nicotine
Significantly increase intrasynaptosomal concentrations of calcium.
Modulation of calcium levels is thought to help regulate the release of
neurotransmitters from nerve terminals in vivo. The abilities of several

f8OG 66L4G