+ Changes in Smoking Characteristics 543

Differences in the distribution by occupation among women remain relatively
small compared to those arnong men. The percent of current smokers is lowest among
professionals and homemakers for white women. (There are too few professionals
among black women to conclude anything with respect to that category.) There is a
small decline in the percent of current smokers for most occupations, but it is
generally not accompanied by an increase in never smokers. The overall changes in
smoking prevalence among women are summarized by the last row (in Table HI),
that of total smoking prevalence. There is an approximate 5% decline in the percent
of current smokers and an approximate 4% decline among never smokers, On the
whole, there was relatively little change in the percent of women smokers between
1970 and 1979/80 either by occupation or in general.

Table IV gives the percent distribution of occupation within smoking groups by
sex and race. (In reading this table, we find from the first column that 6.1% of all
white male current smokers are professionals, 12.4% are managers, 2% are in
technical jobs, and so on.)

It is important to keep in mind the changes in the distribution of occupations in
the U.S. population. These changes affect females more than males. There is an
increase in the proportion of female workers, especially among whites, in profes-
sional, managerial, and technical jobs. An increase in clerical jobs affects only black
women. There is a decrease in the proportion who hold service jobs, especially
among black males. There is a sharp drop in the proportion of black males who are
employed (from 79.4 to 70.4%) and a sharp increase among white women (from 45.5
to 53.7%), but the percent employed for black women and white males has changed
relatively little between 1970 and 1979/80- .

While a few of the professional, technical, and other jobs involve exposure to
hazardous conditions, as a rule, service and blue-collar jobs encompass most of the
hazardous types of employment. The 1970 data show that a majority of males who
were current smokers belonged to occupational categories that included most of the
potentially hazardous jobs. In 1970, 54.3% of white males and 66% of black males
worked in service and blue-collar jobs. This percentage decreased slightly, to 53.3%
for white males and somewhat more, to 55.2% for black males in 1979/80. It is still
true that a majority of male current smokers work in potentially hazardous jobs.

The percent of women smokers working in potentially hazardous occupations
depends on whether or not homemaking is counted among those conditions. For many
reasons homemaking ought to be considered a potentially hazardous occupation, but
traditionally it is not. However, even if homemaking is excluded from the hazardous
occupations, an appreciable proportion of women employed outside the home both in
1970 and 1979/80 worked in service and blue-collar jobs related to potential occupa-
tional hazards. (For black women almost 60% of those working outside the home
work in service and blue-collar jobs.)

Table V shows the relative proportion of each smoking and occupational cate-
gory with respect to the entire population, simultaneously taking into account differ-
ences in smoking and occupational distribution. The values in Table V are ratios of
the corresponding values from Table III by the appropriate total entry. (For instance,
the value of 0.71 for white male professional current smokers may be obtained by
taking the value in Table III of 30.4, which is the percent of current smokers among
all white male professionals, and dividing it by 42.7, which is the percent of current
smokers among all white males. The same results can be obtained by taking the value

11012512