554 Weinkam and Sterling

in Table IV of 6.1, which is the percent of white male professionals among all current
smokers, and dividing it by 8.5, which is the percent of professional white males
among all white males. However, the results may differ slightly due to rounding
errors.)

The relative proportions of Table V measure departures in the proportional
distribution of occupations within particular smoking groups from the distribution in
the overall population. A relative proportion of | means that the proportion within a
subpopulation of individuals having some characteristic is the same as the proportion
in the overall population having that characteristic. Thus, the value of 0.71 for
professional white males who are current smokers can be interpreted to mean that
there are about 30% fewer white male professionals among current smokers than
would be expected if the proportion of white male professionals among current
smokers were equal to the proportion of white male professionals among all white
males.

For males. relative proportions are less than 1 for professional, managerial, and
technical jobs, but greater than 1 for service and blue-collar occupations, both for
1970 and 1979/80. Relative proportions for the employed, both for current smokers
and never smokers, remained essentially unchanged.

Table V indicates that, if anything, the proportional difference between occu-
pations has increased among males but that the smaller differences existing for women
have remained relatively stable.

Table VI presents data on a possible association between age of starting to
smoke and subsequent occupation. The table shows the percent distribution of smok-
ing status within occupation both for individuals under age 20 and under age 25. As
there are insufficient numbers of black respondents to carry out any meaningful
comparison, Table VI is limited to whites. There are insufficient data for professional,
managerial, technical, clerical, and other occupations and these are also omitted.

For both 1970 and 1979/80, a much higher percentage of current smokers is
found among young service and blue-collar workers than among all young people. It
is important to keep in mind that the persons at ages less than 25 who are not
employed include many of the individuals who eventually will take up professional,
managerial, and technical positions but are still pursuing their education. Hence the
data show that young people heading for blue-collar or service jobs take up smoking
more readily than those heading for professional, technical, and managerial positions.
Among young males, the percent of current smokers has decreased between 1970 and
1979/80, and the number of never smokers has increased. A comparison of smoking
characteristics between the under-20 age group and the under-25 group shows that
the number of former smokers increases from age 20 to 25, and more so for 1979/80
than for 1970. This indicates that, for young people, cessation of smoking increases
side by side with the prevalence of smoking.

The changes in smoking behavior among young people that have taken place
between 1970 and 1979/80 are somewhat different for males than for females. The
prevalence of smoking has declined for males but has increased for females in both
the under-20 and the under-25 age groups. On the other hand, the difference between
the under-20 and the under-25 groups has remained about the same for males but
declined for females. The large increase in young female smokers must therefore be
taking place at ages less than 20.

By age 25, the rate of increase has been greatly reduced and the increase in
former smokers indicates that many of these young women have ceased smoking. By

Cre SP-FILES 012503

11012523