560 ‘Weinkam and Sterling

1. Within each occupation, the percent of current smokers has decreased and
the percent of former and never smokers has increased. These changes are more
pronounced for males than for females.

2. Despite the decline among current smokers and increase among former and
never smokers, the basic pattern of distribution of occupations within smoking
categories has remained substantially unchanged from 1970 to 1979/80.

3, The occupational differences within smoking categories appear to have
become somewhat more pronounced for males. Occupational differences among
females were small in 1970 and remained so in 1979/80.

4. The probability of young people taking up smoking remains tied to occupa-
tional choice. The prevalance with which young people smoke has declined for males
and increased for females. Females appear to be taking up smoking at an earlier age.

5. Changes in smoking habits for cohorts moving from younger to older ages
are similar for all occupations. There is a relatively uniform decrease in current
smokers coupled with an increase in former smokers. (The percent of never smokers
remains the same, indicating that few individuals take up smoking after the age of
25.)

6. Decline in the prevalence of smoking is more pronounced among employed
than it is among individuals who are not employed.

7. These appears to be an effect, possibly due to publicity about smoking, that
leads to a relatively large number of refusals to provide information about smoking
habits in the 1979/80 NHIS. It is possible that the estimated decrease in prevalence of
current smoking and the increase in never smoking among males would be somewhat
smaller if adjustments were made for missing smoking information. These changes in
estimates would be relatively minor, however, and would not affect the pattern of
differences in smoking distributions observed between occupations for males. Despite
the fact that the distortions introduced appear at present to be small, the large increase
in the number of subjects who do not provide smoking information suggests a definite
change in public attitudes. It also raises questions about the accuracy of the informa-
tion that is reported.

Despite the drop in prevalence of smoking, the ties of smoking to occupation,
or to the lifestyle of which the occupation is an index, continue to be a factor. Among
males, smoking is more prevalent in occupations where workers are also exposed to
possible hazards in the workplace. This pattern is not as pronounced for females.
Because of the tie of occupation to smoking among males, it is important for smoking
studies to consider the occupation of smokers.

The fact that the relationship between smoking habits and occupational indices
is less clear-cut for fernales than it is for males is puzzling. This difference by
occupation between male and female smoking habits merits investigation by sociolo-
gists. Existing occupational groupings are oriented toward male workers. They are
also an index of the social class to which the male worker and his family belong.
Lifestyles are part and parcel of social class. It may be that occupational groupings,
constructed to fit primarily male occupations, do not differentiate on major life-style
variables among females. Also, many employed women appear to have a dual
occupation, that of working outside the home and that of homemaking.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The grant support for this study came, in part, from the Council for Tobacco
Research U.S.A. Funds to acquire the NHIS Public Use Tapes were made available,

; Cie SP-FILES 012509

11012529