338 Weinkam and Sterling

age 25, the percent of current smokers among white females was equal to that of
white males in 1979/80.

The NHIS data make it possible to compare a cohort of individuals moving
from 1970 to 1979/80. Table VE compares the percent distribution of smoking status
by occupation for ages 25 to 45 in 1970 with that for ages 35 to 55 in 1979/80. These
groups are independent samples, drawn approximately 10 years apart from substan-
tially the same population cohort. The percent distribution of smoking status by
occupation is as expected. For males, there is a decrease of current smokers accom-
panied by a corresponding increase in percent of former smokers. Percent of never
smokers remains approximately the same, indicating that smoking is seldom taken up
by individuals older than 25. The decrease in the prevalence of smoking is not as
pronounced among women as it is among men. Among white women, the percent of
current smokers decreases from 1970 to 1979/80 for the employed but it increases for
those not employed. Nevertheless, but to a Jesser extent than for males, the prevalence
of current smokers among white and black females decreases, while the prevalence
of former smokers increases by approximately the same amount. The slight increase
in never smokers for white females is probably attributable to sampling error.

The 1979/80 data include a very large number of direct interviews with no
information about smoking habits, many more than were found in 1970. Table VIII
shows the percent of interviews with unknown smoking information for 1970 and
1979/80 by race, sex, and employment for self respondents only. Because of changes
in the interviewing method this comparison cannot be made for proxy respondents.
With the single exception of white female technical employees, increases between
1970 and 1979/80 are very large. (For example .08 percent of white male blue-collar
workers who were interviewed directly did not answer the smoking questions in 1970
while 1.18 percent failed to do so in 1979/80.) The large increase of missing smoking
information among the self respondents is a measure of the increasing tendency,
possibly attributable to publicity about smoking and pressure from relatives and
friends, to refuse to divulge information about smoking. The increase in refusal to
reply to smoking questions is larger for males than for females and is also larger for
blacks than for whites.

We attempied to assess possible errors in estimates due to a large number of
unknowns by imputing smoking characteristics to the unknowns and recomputing the
prevalence of smoking between occupations, based on the assumed distribution of the
unknowns.

The imputing of smoking characteristics has little if any effect on the smoking
distribution for females. For males, the correction for missing smoking data results
in a general tendency to increase slightly the percent of current smokers and to
decrease the percent of never smokers (data not shown). However, our correction for
missing smoking data does not appear to have any effect on the relative differences in
the distribution of smoking characteristics between occupations and it has a minimal
effect among males on the estimate of percent of individuals with different smoking
habits.

CONCLUSIONS :
Our analysis provides some answers to the seven questions about possible

changes over a 10-year interval in the relation of smoking to occupation that motivated
this work.

CTR SP-FILES Q12507

11012527