542 Weinkam and Sterling

heid a job. Only persons who had no job and were not homemakers were classified
as not employed.

Within each classification, the sum of the weights and the number of subjects
were accumulated. (For the 1979/80 data, the sum of the weights was divided by 2
because 2 years of data were involved.) The sum of the weights of individuals in a
given category is an estimate of the number of persons in the U.S. who would fall in
that category. The sampling error of the estimates given here depends on the number
of sample individuals who fall in each category.

RESULTS

Table Ila gives the number of interviews available for analysis in 1970 and
1979/80 by sex, race, occupation, and smoking category. (For instance, there were
808 white male professionals among current smokers in the 1970 NHIS.) There is a
sufficient number of cases to estimate smoking prevalence for whites with acceptable
reliability for all broad occupational groups. (The category “Other” is of no interest
to this analysis.) The sample of blacks is slightly morc than one tenth that of whites
and contains a sufficient number of observations for acceptable estimates of smoking
prevalence only for the service, blue-collar, homemaker (for black women), em-
ployed, and not employed categories.

The magnitude of numbers for different categories needs to be kept in mind in
evaluating the various prevalence rates reported in subsequent tables. There would be
no particular advantage in including the statistical significance of the many smoking
rates and changes in them that we report here and we have not done so. (Those
wishing to determine specific confidence intervals are referred to the NCHS publica-
tion. Current Estimates from the Health Interview Survey [USDHEW, 1974,
USDHHS, 1981]. Appendix I of each issue of this publication includes a discussion
of error estimation for statistics derived from NHIS data and contains charts that may
be used to approximate the relative standard error of estimate. Table Ib gives the
estimated number of individuals in the U.S. who fal! in each category. These values
can then be used in conjunction with specific values from the other tables to read the
appropriate error estimate from the NCHS error charts.)

Table MI summarizes the percent distribution of current, former, ever, and
never smokers within occupational categories. (For instance, among professional
white males, in 1970 there were 30.4% current, 33.6% former, 64.0% ever, and
36.0% never smokers, while in 1979/80, there were 22.8% current, 34.4% former,
57.1% ever, and 42.9% never smokers.)

Differences by occupation and sex observed in 1970 persist, by and large,
through 1979/80.

For males, 1970 data show the typical difference in smoking by occupation.
The highest current smoking rates are for blue-collar and service workers and the
lowest for professionals. Employed workers smoke more than not employed and have
fewer never smokers in their ranks. The 1979/80 data show the same qualitative
characteristics, albeit for a markedly reduced percentage of current and increased
percentage of never smokers. The percent of current smokers drops by approximately
15% for white and 20% for black males, while the percent of never smokers increases
by approximately 10% for white and 20% for black males.

CTe SP-FILES 012491

11012511