Proc. Natl. Acad, Sei, USA
Vol. 85, pp. 5951-5955, August 1988
Cell Biology

Characterization of human tracheal epithelial cells transformed by
an origin-defective simian virus 40

(immortalization /ion transport / phenotype / differentiation)

D. C. Gruenert**, C. B. Baspaum*?, M, J. WecsH’, M. Li’, W. E. FINKBEINER*{, AND J. A. NADEL*!!

*Cardiovascular and *Cancer Research Institute, and Departments of Anatomy, ‘Pathology, and |'Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94143; and SLaboratory of Epithelial Transport, Department of Internal Medicine, University of lowa College of Medicine, lowa City, 1A 52242

Conununicated by Joha A. Clements, April H, 1988

ABSTRACT _ To facilitate understanding of the mecha-
nisms underlying pulmonary diseases, including lung cancer
and cystic fibrosis, we have transformed and characterized
cultures of human tracheal epithelial cells. Cells were trans-
fected by calcium phosphate precipitation with a plasmid
containing a replication-defective simian virus 40 (SV40) ge-
nome. Colonies of cells with enhanced growth potential were
isolated and analyzed for transformation- and epithelial-
specific characteristics. Precrisis cells were observed to express
the SV40 large tumor antigen, produce cytokeratins, have
microvilli, and form tight junctions. After crisis, cells contin-
ued to express the SV40 large tumor antigen as well as
epithelial-specific cytokeratins and to display the apical mem-
brane microvilli. Apical membrane C] channels were opened in
postcrisis cells exposed to 50 4M forskolin. These channels
showed electrical properties similar to those observed in
primary cultures. The postcrisis cells have been in culture for
>250 generations and are potentially ‘‘immortal.”’ In addition
to providing a useful i# vitro model for the study of ion
transport by human airway epithelial cells, the cells can be used
to examine stages of neoplastic progression.

 

Recent studies investigating mechanisms of carcinogenesis
have shown that cultured human epithelial cells from various
organs can be transformed by exposure to carcinogens,
viruses, and/or oncogenes (for reviews, see refs. 1 and 2).
Such cells possess altered growth properties that can be
correlated with their neoplastic potential. Foreskin and
mammary epithelial cells treated with chemicals or radiation
show enhanced growth capacity (3, 4), Human keratinocytes
(5) have been immortalized with Harvey murine sarcoma
virus (v-Ha-ras). Human keratinocytes, immortalized with
adenovirus type 12/simian virus 40 (Ad12/SV40) hybrid
virus, become tumorigenic after subsequent exposure to the
Kirsten ras (KRAS) oncogene or a chemical carcinogen (6, 7).

In contrast to the relatively large number of studies
describing cells from other organs (recently reviewed in refs.
1 and 2), only three reports indicate transformation of
respiratory tract cells (8-10). Bronchial epithelial cells im-
mortalized with v-Ha-ras display anchorage-independent
growth and form tumors in nude mice. However, these cells
were poorly differentiated and did not contain tight junctions
or keratins characteristic of differentiated epithelial cells.
The epithelial origin of the cells was verified by the presence
of keratin. A somewhat greater level of differentiation was
retained by diethylnitrosamine-transformed fetal tracheal
cells, which contained mucin. These cells also expressed
carcinoembryonic antigen and wool merokeratin and had
enhanced, although limited, growth capacity (9). A third
study primarily described methods for transfection and

 

The publication costs of this article were defrayed in part by page charge
payment, This article must therefore be hereby marked ‘‘advertisement”’
in accordance with 18 U.S.C. §1734 solely to indicate this fact.

 

5951

showed expression of the SV40 large tumor antigen (T
antigen) three to four subcultures posttransfection (10).

A goal of the present study was to develop a transformed
human tracheal epithelial (HTE) cell line for detailed studies
of the mechanisms regulating Cl ion transport. This aspect of
epithelial function is essential for rehydration of airway
mucus. Abnormalities in the Cl conductance pathway also
appear critical to disease processes such as those occurring
in cystic fibrosis (11, 12).

Phenotypic characteristics have been well maintained in
S¥40-transformed fibroblasts (13-15). In SV40-transformed
epithelial cells (16-19), certain aspects of phenotype are
retained better than others (17, 18, 20, 21). A plasmid
containing a 5V40 genome defective in the origin of replica-
tion (pSVori~) has been shown to enhance the transforma-
tion efficiency of human fibroblasts (22). The defective origin
of replication precludes background virus replication and
eliminates the possibility of cell death or interference with
phenotypic expression in the host cell due to uncontrolled
viral DNA synthesis or production of viral particles. We have
used the pSVori~ plasmid to transform HTE cells. Trans-
formed cells pass through a period of ‘‘crisis,”’ after which
phenotype may change and loss of certain differentiated
functions may occur (21, 23). We have analyzed both pre- and
postcrisis cells. Biochemical and morphological analyses
reveal that the cells retain some aspects of the original
phenotype even after crisis. These include the presence of
microvilli, responsiveness to neural agonists, keratin produc-
tion, and Cl ion transport.

METHODS

Cells and Culture Conditions. Cells were isolated from
trachea, as described, by enzymatic digestion (24) or as
outgrowths from tracheal tissue explants. Cells were plated
onto dishes coated with fibronectin (Collaborative Research,
Waltham, MA), Vitrogen (GIBCO), and bovine serum albu-
min. Cultures were grown in LHC-8e medium (25) at 37°C
under 5% CO,/95% air.

Pure cultures of epithelial cells were generated by elim-
inating contaminating fibroblasts through selective detach-
ment (26). Pure cultures of epithelial cells were grown to 70%
or 80% confluence before subculturing into 100-mm Petri
dishes.

Transformation, The pSVori~ plasmid was amplified in
bacteria and then isolated after banding on CsCtI density
gradients (27). Since the transfection efficiency is increased
in linearized plasmids (22), pSVori~ was linearized with Xho
I at a unique restriction enzyme site distal to the transforming
genes in the SV40 portion of the plasmid. The plasmid was cut
in a region distant to the SV40 genes to minimize endogenous
exonuclease damage to genes essential for transformation.

 

Abbreviations: $V40, simian virus 40; T antigen, large tumor antigen;
HTE, human tracheal epithelial.

~~ 50594477