BENT Pei TOWNSEND AND COMPANY 5 5-18-91 StZEPM 3 e1644apzae4
>

 

Coalition for Clean Indoor Alr and Health Protection

April 15, 1984

Jack Sweeney, Chairman

El Dorado County Board of Supervisors
$90 Fair Lana

Placerville, CA 95667

Dear Supervisor Sweeney:

Enclosed for your consideration Is the draft smoking ordinance prepared by the Clean indoor
Alr and Health Protection Coalltion, Although the drat ordinance passed by a vote of 7-to-1,
we teal that it is important to express the different viewpoints of the committee members, This
letter attempts to present both the majority and minority opinions of our group,

The majority of the members of the committee feel that anything short of an 100 percent
smoke-free ordinance [8 not favorable to the health and safety of the public. The malority
believe that smoke flows freely from smoking to non-smoking ereas, and 100 percent amoke-
fre |s the only way to protect both employees in the workplace and the public at large, The
minority group would rather allow businesses to set thelr own policles and avold mandating
policy altogether,

The primary difference of opinion centers around protecting the rights of business owners to
86t policy versus protecting the nonsmoking publle. The minority position of the commtittes
belleve that since thera Is no threshold established for the amount of second-hand smoke that
is hazardous, wa do not have sufficient basis to establish a 100 percent smoke-free poiley.
They feel that each business owner should be allowed to set thelt own smoking policy. The
majority believe that & threshold is net necessary. Second-hand amoke has been proven to
be harmful to nonsmokers. In our survey to business owners in E! Dorado County, 83 percent
belleve that second-hand smeke is hazardous to nonsmokers’ health.

Another area of disagreement ts in the treatment of employees, Many members belleve that
all businseses should be treated the same. Allowing smoking sections in restaurants will
expose employees to second-hand smoke, but the ordinance requires all other businesses to
provide smoke-free alr for employees. Please refer to the attached letter from Betty Turner,
Policy Director of the American Lung Asscciation for further explanation.

TCAL0447628