ROLE CANE Radney Ape abo

1
n
t
uo
c
‘
m

6665 TS

13369357707 Pp.

 

 

 

    
 

sates

OU WON

 

  

TORIAL

"TKNOW WHAT HIT YOU
UNTIL ITS TOO LATE!

  
 

LETTERS.

 

 

Laws Have Changed
In Tobacco Industry

T read with interest the “ “apopy-

mous? cohuasi‘by} Health and Ha.

man Services Scomtary Donna Sha-
lala prosiotigg tow tobacco legisla-

tion (Mama's Leaders? Stepping *
in On Tobsccg ix a Political Win-

aceoe sales of an catimaied 13 per
seat last year. Far mort any oth-ria-

 
   
    
   

oversight.

“ks Lave came to'kamm, bower.
@r, G6 afiount of compromise is
tnough for some. In fet, Sectstary
have even occunmd. Her casc for

 

‘jebration

xtto the birthday of che nation or the
JS, Constinution, we can't think of an
aniversary moce worthy of cclebration
wof the Library of Congresa, whose bi- *
dal is being observed on Capitol Hill

a keeping with the Library's forward-
mission, the eclebowion will be aend-
aly by authors, scholars and politicians,”
eh, “living legends” as TY’s Big Bird
{dren's author Maurice Sendak.

Liboian of Coogress Jnmses Billingtoa ~ *~"*

«Roll Call interview today, the Library is
a's oldest federal culazral institution. Qoae
in the U.S. Capital, it was destroyed by

wo the Batish sacked Washington in 2814,
costinged with the purchase of Thoonas
a's 7 200-volume library. Most af that oal-
summed in apother fire in 1B51, but as part
«ceateamial, 90 perecat of the Jeffersan cal-
zs been reassembled and the opening of a
exhibit is part of the celebration.

other parts of the fesivides include ob

“Five million itams of the most interesting .

and importans in American history,” he told
Roll Call, “points to the digital funice and its
i to libraries and to have it mixed in ©
with the qulbire of the book.”

For most Americans /The Litmary af Con-
* gress used to bs just ‘beautiful building to visit
ty Washingtoa. Now, it will be increasingly ac-
* oessible in every home and school And, says
* Billingson, “we are attesiing the fun, so that it
teaches beyond the educational commumity”
with such items as a baseball section that in-
cludes photog, baseball cards and songs.
7g the earl yd enide1990s, the Library bad
its probl-ms, leading Billington to say that all
anyone heard about was mouble —- security
breaches that resulted in theft or damage to
valuable books, labor disputes, a keaky roof sod
unauditanie financial records, Some problems
remain, chiefly in tse nea of computerized 4-
nancial management systems, bul most have
been addressed, We'd suggest that Billington
work to baprove THOMAS, the Library's leg-
islative rewource aa the Internet, 0 make such
items available as Congressional bearing bran-

‘|, sareed wo solndaatopwide wenicons

 

te reltene
Should. federal agency be given ae
thority to ban entiny classes of to
+ bacco produces? Tha bills intro-
_ dnond sinos the Supeeme Court de-
cishon all seam to take this approach.
Should « federal agency be given ay

 
    
   
   
 

tobacco products, prinadily relating
fo youth smaking, In 199k, we

As ope who bes sought and
agreed jo" reasonable regulation
aimed at vedocing youth smoking!
sausedto having my honesty char

range cng ect
aod conducting 1 wellteasoocd deo-
” bade on the fomure of tabaace prod

See theety aoe Whe Sox
Shalala bas beea ovdining

miary
which ate enforted by the xaics and what may be a “political winner,”

 

c the 100th anniversary of the copyright scripts, Coagressional Rescarch Scrvice reports, subject to judjsal oyersight. otbent are trying to taks measouable
+ Wizadd of Oz” and the launching of voting rec.ds, lobbyist disclosure reports and The 1998 seulement also includ- shop that work.
pericaslibrary.gov, part of Billington's Members! financial distlosuse reports . od payments to mates that will too!
idevelop & Natioaal Digntal Library of But problems are for another dat sis $246 digo. These payments have Marta L. Growigy
Won items of American histary and cu!- the buthday of “the nation’s memory da contributed to dramatic clpurete Prosdead
wee milioa mircady have been digitized. celebration of its fueure, price increascs, and a decline in cig ‘Lecitlard Tobacen Campam
j cami | “IST vane ane | MESSE
oN oo08 aN ATO arco Barer eae ge we Paar Genre Som omaratreven tent

SO

CR6SB97