DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY
HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL

25 SHATTUCK STREET
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS O2915

BARUJ BENACERRAF, M.D, TEL. 734-3300
PABYAN PROFE@SOR OF COMPARATIVE PATHOLOGY
CHAIRMAN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PATHOLOGY October 29, 1971
’

Dr. S.« C. Sommers

The Council for Tobacco Research, UsSeAs, Inc.
110 East 59th Street

New York, N. Y. 10022

Dear Dr. Sommers:

I would like to clarify some aspects of the Research project which we submitted
to the Council for Tobacco Research, in an attempt to demonstrate that our project is
directly concerned with an area of cancer research which your organization is interested
in supporting, i.e., the pathogenic mechanisms of oncogenesis and their control, as
relates particularly to chemical carcinogenesis.

We feel that the immune mechanism is far more efficient in preventing the develop-
ment of malignancies than in destroying well established growing tumors. The develop-
ment of many tumors may indeed be considered, at least in part, as the result of failure
of the cellular immunity defense against tumor specific antigens. In these situations,
either the least antigenic malignant cells may be permitted to grow and thus escape
immune defenses, or humoral antibodies may block specific cellular immunity.

Considerable experimental evidence has been obtained in support of the considera-
tions described above. As reported by ourselves and Dr. Old several years ago, it is
relatively easy to demonstrate the increased resistance to tumor induction afforded by
agents which stimulate the immune system, such as BCG but impossible to obtain favorable
results with this type of treatment when the tumors are well established.

Our purpose is to devise better methods of enhancing the immunological reactivity
of host to weak tumor antigens and better techniques of stimulating selectively cellular
immunity while depressing undesirable humoral immunity. Thus we plan to significantly
decrease the rate of appearance of tumors induced by chemical carcinogens as well as
increase the time after which they appear. We plan to use inbred mice for these studies
rather than guinea pigs which we used for our studies on protection against leukemia
because the mouse is clearly the animal of choice for these experiments. In addition,
parallel with these studies in mice, the appearance of antibody against known viral
oncogenic agents can be monitored in the sera of the experimental animals. We propose
to use several inbred strains of mice, BALB/c, C572 C3H, and AKR and the following
carcinogens, 3-methylcholanthrene and 3,4,~9,10-dibenzpyrene. We plan te paint or
inject the carcinogen in graded doses to mice which will be subjected to various pro-
cedures desianed to affect the immune system and its reactivity, such as graft vs host
reactions, treatment with certain bacteria] extracts that have demonstrable adjuvant
effects for cellular immunity. We will then observe the rate of appearance of the
tumor in the population.

In conjunction with these experiments, 11 seems important to us to develop a
deeper understanding of the mechanisms by which the immune system manages to reject

 

50093420