W. GS. IRCLAND

Ml oM. THOMPSON

 

SUBJECT: PROPOSED STUDIES GN THE EFFECTS GF CYCLODEXTRING UPON THE COMPOSITION
OF TOBACCO SMOKE

INTRODUCTION:

This proposal outlines a research project focused on the use of cyclodextrins as
a filtering device for benzo[a]pyrene in cigarette smoke.

In brief, cycledextrins (Cy) are carbohydrates formed by the enzymatic
degradation of starch. The majority of CyD’s used are alpha, bata and gamma
CyD’s are cyclic in which six, seven and eight glucose molecules, respectively,
are Linked im a large ring by 1,4 glucoside linkages. This results im 4 rigid,
fonical molecular structure with a hollew interior. The dimension of the
interior ranges from 5.7 ta 9.95 A in diameter depending upon the number of
glucose units and is ca.7.8 A deep. The interior of this cavity is relatively
hydrophobic while the erior of the cavity is hydrophobic. These properties
of the Cyl allow the formation of stable Cy0 complexes with other molecules. (1)

  
 

Taday cyclodextrins are widely used in foods, cosmetics and toiletries due to
their ability to molecularly encapsulate flavors and fragrances. It is this
ability that makes CyD’s attractive for use in cigarettes. In fact, the
possibile uses of cyclodextrins in cigarette filters has not gone unnoticed.
Several studies on the application of cyclodextrins to stabilize cigarette
flavors have been reported: Rob et al. from Philip Morris examined the
stabili ion of menthol, furan, anethole, linslool, geraniol, cineol,
citronellal, phenylethyl alcohol, coumarin and cinmamaldehyde.{(2) Fram this
work Several patents were abtained.(3,4,5) Im addition ta these studies
numerous other people outside of the tobacco industry have investigated Cy
complexes of materials common ta beth their interests and cigsrettes. (4)
Lorillard studies conducted by FY. Schickedantz have addressed the use CyD’s for
flavor stabilization and delivery. He explored the complexation of citral and
orange ail with beta-cyclodextrin. (7,98).

   

A seconde srea af Cyl research has involved the incorporation of Cyl’s
cigarette filters for the purpose of smoke filtration. It has been
the addition of Cyfi’s toe the filter reduces nicotine ang tar
iout impairing the arema and flavor of the cigarette.(7,10) Most patents
in this aspect of Cy? use have focused on the abilities of CyD’s te
= and micatine. With Lorillard’s emphasis onc ting a afer

cidaret cyclodextrins appear to offer a great petenti for adsorbing mot
only tar and nicetine but other Biologically active components found in

Cigarette smoke. One category of components of interest include the PAH’s. It

has been demonstrated that Cyfl’s form inclusion complexes with

   

  
 
 
 

 

    

   

soszvace

   
 

    
  
 
  

 

with ane af the m carcinogens PAH, benzofalpyrene.(11) It is the purpoze of
this res ther the presence of CyD’s in the cigarette filter
woulda of benzolaipyrene in smoke and therefore result

  

im a less

caneteerenneT wrens ent tt mena oon