= Canstructian:

   
  

dy will require a muiti
ucture af the Lark filter i 3

or this study. The Lark filter of two cellulose acetate f
seaqments which sandwich a charcoal sec Since charcoal is known to alter
cigarette smoke composition it will be removed from the cigarette filters af
both cantrol and CyI cigarettes.

 
   
 

powder may be added.

and will be e

    

Analytical Method far Detecting benzolalpyrene:

An HELC method has previously been developed for the amsiysis of benzofalpyrene
in mainstream and sidestream smoke.(i2) Analyses will be performed on the smake
from Cyli and control cigarettes. A comparison of bpenzolalpyrene levels will be
made.

CONCLUSIONS

The incorporation af eyclodextrins inte the cigarette filter has been proposed
aS & possible methad for producing a less biologically active cigarette. The
experimental approach will involve a comparison of the level of benzo[a]pyrene
delivered to the smoke from a control cigarette to that level delivered to the
smoke from a cigarette to which cyclodextrin has beer added to the fiiter. If
the activity of the cyclodextrin towards benzo[a]pyrene appears to be positive,
the potential for cyclodextrins ta target other biologically active components
of smoke will be explored.

REFERENCES
1. T. French, Adv. Carbohydr. Chem, 12 is? (1957).

ses

2. §. &W. Robb, J. G. Westbrogk and A. Bavley, "The Use of Nom-Volatile Adducts
in Smoke Flavor," Tob. Sci. 8, 3 (1964).

3. A. Bavley, £. W. Robb, and R. OD. Carpenter, "Composition for Incarporation
Elavoar inte Tobacce Smoke," U. &. Patent 3,295,144, November 29, 1964.

Baviey, €. W. Robb, “Smoking Cemposition,” U. S. Patent 3,047,431, July
o

reis, Inc., "Toabacce mixture ining clathrated-flavauring

World Patent 7i-Shst Me LoeLe

     

 

tzernte amd J. Szeitli, "Sta

sium Series BYO, 148, (1987).

Flavors Sy Cyclodextrins’" ACS

 

    

L09ZPSL9

ra Gchickedantz, "Stabilization of Cigarette Flavors with
bat tlodextein, and Initial Propose " Lorillard Memorandum, December 10,
1986.

Lam ete BO ARR ROE Re et