for the decline, including less fat in the diet, reduced smoking,
control of hypertension, etc.

His closing words: "In our zeal to prevent coronary disease
immediately, we must not lose sight of two things, that we are
not truly able to do that yet, but that promising new possibili-
ties are emerging. I firmly believe that the American people can
and will continue to support medical research for the conquest
of coronary disease, but that they will do this best and most
enthusiastically when we level with them, do not dissemble, do
not overpromise, and restrain ourselves from shrill postures
and polemic diatribes. The truth is exciting enough."

8. Thomas L. Raymond and associates of Johnson City, Tenn.,
had submitted a paper describing their study of plasma lipopro-
teins in monkeys (stump-tailed macaques) exposed to chronic in-
halation of smoke from Kentucky 2R1 cigarettes. Their paper was
not. accepted for presentation. However, they would have re-
ported that 8 animals smoked the human equivalent of 3. packs/day,
7 days/week for 2-5 years; 5 animals smoked the equivalent of
1 pack/day; another 8 animals served as controls. There were
no significant differences in all the animals in regard to whole
plasma, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol, low density
lipoprotein cholesterol, or high density liproptein cholesterol.
Measurements were taken four times during one year.

_ 9. In another paper not accepted for publication, Theodore
Zimmerman of La Jolla, Cal., with colleagues from San Antonio
(Henry McGill among them) would have discussed the effects of
cigarette smoking on Factor VIII/von Willebrand Factor, which
is present in arterial endothelium and is implicated in both
atherogenesis and thrombo-resistance, in nonhuman primates.
Plasma samples ~zaken after 110 and 140 weeks of smoking by
baboons showed decreased levels of Factor VIII. The findings,
according to the authors, suggest that smoking causes chronic
endothelial injury and, by modifying endothelial function, in-
directly affects either atherogenesis or thrombogenesis, or both.

10. Two more progress reports were given on findings from
the Bogalusa Heart Study which began in 1973 and covers about
5000 black and white children aged 8-17 years in the biracial
Louisiana city. The reports. delivered at separate sessions by
project director Gerald Berenson and M. Sklov, dealt with smok-
ing among the children. Both speakers noted that the most com-
mon forms of heart disease are now known to have their origin
in early childhood and that it was important to understand life-
stule and environmental factors that influence the outcome of
these ailments.

Berenson reported that even at low levels of smoking, there
was a reduction in high density lipoprotein concentrations. The
use of oral contraceptives (in 31 girls aged 14 and older) led
to higher levels of low density lipoproteins and triglycerides.
An effect of race also was noted, he said.

6186 LEZOS