animals every 15 minutes.

After an hour's exposure to TDM, Dillon said, the dog's gali-
bladders looked abnormal -- loss of normal blue coloration, areas
of intense vasospasm and hemorrhaging, marked edema, margination
and emigration of polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes in the sub-
mucosa, and leukocyte clumping. The pulmonary capillaries were
"filled" with PMN leukocytes and thromboses also were seen in
the various small pulmonary blood vessels.

No adverse effects were observed in any of the controls,
Dillon continued, adding that TDM exposure also resulted in
shortened partial thromboplastin time and euglobulin clot lysis
time. The effects, he said, "presumably" resulted from activa-—
tion of Factor XII (Hageman Factor) dependent pathways.

In response to a question, Becker later said no tests have
been done with human smokers and nonsmokers. However, he added, |
an epidemiologic study is expected to be published soon on the _
increased incidence of cholecystitis in Japan. Perhaps diet or
increased smoking is responsible for the increase in that na-
tion, he said.

The TDM experiment doesn't work in rabbits, Becker noted, only
in dogs and African green monkeys (so far). Intravenous inject-
ion of ellagic acid in monkeys "presumably" caused the same
results as those seen with TDM, he said.

2. "Effect of nicotine on prostacyclin (PC) production in human
umbilical arteris" -- Isaak Stoel, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
He described an experiment on the question of whether nicotine
influenced the production of a "prostacyclin-like substance" in
umbilical arteries taken from 10 mothers who smoked (at least
10 cigarettes daily) and 13 who did not smoke during pregnancy.
(Prostacyclin is another name from prostaglandin, a variant of
which is considered a protective agent by inhibiting platelet
aggregation.)

The umbilical arteries were collected and perfused immediate-
ly after birth, Stoel said. There were three perfusion regi-
mens: with buffer until PC release occurred, then buffer plus
nicotine, then buffer reperfusion.

Perfusion with nicotine resulted in a significant decline
in PC release from the arteries and increased platelet aggrega-
tion, he said. In 5 of 13 of the arteries from the nonsmokers,
PC production returned after 20 minutes' reperfusion. In 9 of
10 arteries from the smokers, the decline in PC production was
more pronounced and did not reverse after reperfusion.

"The findings may constitute a pathophysiological basis for
the epidemiologic association between cigarette smoking and ar-
teriosclerosis," Stoel concluded.

SL86 LETOS