36

One questioner asked whether the arteries could have been
discharging PC while they were being removed and handled, thus
offsetting the claimed results. Stoel denied this.

3. "Influence of cigarette smoking and saturated fats on
platelet function in farmers from each and west Scotland" --
Serge Renaud, Lyon-Bron, France (with a Scottish colleague).
Smoking is a major factor in coronary heart disease (CHD),
Renaud said in opening, but Japanese and Germans don't get CHD
at the same rate as North Americans who smoke like amounts of
cigarettes. He theorized that smoking might predispose individ-
uals on a high saturated fat diet to coronary disease.

To check his theory, he first studied 25 dairy farmers in
west Scotland, which has a high CHD mortality rate, and 25 sim-
ilarly employed men in east Scotland, where the CHD rate is
like that in the rest of Great Britain.

Cholesterol levels were the same in both groups, but the

western farmers were found to have a much higher thrombin clot-_

ting time than those in the east. The westerners, he said, ate
more butter and cream and less margarine and low-fat oil than
did their eastern counterparts.

He then studied various platelet functions before and after
smoking of a cigarette in the two groups which had 20 smokers
each. Before smoking, platelet functions were higher in the
western group. But after 10 minutes' smoking there was a marked
increase in platelet response from all the subjects in both
groups.

4. "Comparison of coronary risk factor changes between anti-
hypertensive drug users and nonusers in the Multiple Risk Factor
Intervention Trial (MRFIT) -- results at 36 months" -- Jerome
Cohen, St. Louis, gave this report on data from the 22 clinical
centers participating in the MRFIT project. (Brief background:
MRFIT is a clinical trial to test the theory that reduction of
hypertension, serum cholesterol levels and cigarette smoking in
middle-aged, coronary-prone men will lower the mortality rate
from CHD. Nearly 13,000 men above average risk for CHD but free
of clinical CHD entered the trial; 6438 were randomized into a
usual care group for treatment by their own doctors and 6428
were assigned to a special intervention group for aggressive
treatment. The regimen covered drugs for hypertension and life-
style changes in regard to smoking and eating habits.)

Cohen's data were somewhat confusing, compounded by the fact
that the subjects are divided into a number of subgroups. How-
ever, he said, the results to date are good. "Lifestyle coronary
risk factor reduction -- smoking cessation and lowering of serum
cholesterol by dietary change -- can be achieved for men who are
taking antihypertensive drugs and whose blood pressure is well
controlled."

9196 LEZ0S