When Cohen finished, someone in the audience commented on
the editorial in a recent issue of the American Heart Journal
(by Seltzer, whose name was not mentioned). Cohen said the edit-
orial was "unfortunate" but that he was glad it had not gotten
a lot of publicity. The evidence is overwhelming as to smoking's
role in heart disease, he said.

A Michael Stern (San Antonio?) noted that the data for smok-
ing and heart disease in women are not as clear as those for men.
In certain age groups, he said, women smoke more than their male
counterparts but have less heart disease, he said. It's a case
of "muddy waters," he added.

5. The following comments were made at a press conference on
"Identifying high-risk groups for cardiovascular disease."

James Schoenberger, Chicago: The public is more receptive now
to advice on how to decrease the risks for heart attack. The pre-
ventive approach is a must; the cost of treating heart disease
after it develops is prohibitive. There are many unanswered ques—.
tions as to why heart deaths have declined so much in the past.

40 years. (On smoking) The cigarette companies have converted
generations of people into smokers, but fewer middle-aged men

are smoking now and heart disease is falling. But women are smok-
ing more and their lung cancer and heart disease rates will be-
come the same as those for men.

Richard A. Carleton, Pawtucket, R.I.: Intervention is the
best approach to reduce risk factors and community studies,
such as those in Pawtucket, Minneapolis and the ones run by
Stanford University, have shown that risk factors can be re-
duced. There are genetic risk factors in heart disease and
these are difficult to define and understand.

Henry Blackburn, Minneapolis: Direct education-prevention is
the way to go. Enough demonstration projects have been under-
taken to show this route is feasible in reducing heart disease
risk.

6. The following comments were made at a press conference on
“Women and heart disease: fact and fancy."

Nanette K. Wenger, Atlanta: Women are as vulnerable to heart
disease aS are men. The prognosis for women who have suffered a
heart attack is worse than that for men. To the end of the first
year after an attack, 20% of the men will die as compared with
45% of the women. During a 5-year period men have a 13% recur—
rence rate, women 39%. Women are more likely than men to have
hypertension, to be obese and to have higher blood lipid levels.
The major risk factors for heart disease in young women are cig-
arette smoking and oral contraceptives. Postmenopausal women are
at risk with the use of estrogens. After age 40, heart attack
is the most common cause of death in women.

LLQ6 LEZOS