January 22, 1981

MEMORANDUM

TO: W. T. Hoyt CC: WDH
RFG

FROM: Leonard S. Zahn WUG
RCH

SUBJECT: American Heart Association
Miami, Nov. 17-20, 1980

The AHA's annual session has become one of the largest med-
ical meetings in the world. This session had about 1400 pre-
sentations and a huge display of drug companies and equipment
manufacturers. The size and complexity of the event prompted
the association's program committee chairman, in a speech on
"Science and Advertising," to point out certain aspects that
he said were adversely affecting the organization. He specif—
ically criticized drug companies that sponsored their own sem-
inars and special events at various hotels to promote certain
drugs, and he even took a general swipe at scientists who en-
gage in "advertising" to promote their own findings or hypo-
theses with insufficient data.

The press, which was well represented, discussed this in
terms of washing dirty linen, but wrote nothing about it. Nor
did the writers express other than casual interest in the sev-
eral reports dealing with various aspects of smoking or the
press conferences that. contained the usual antismoking comments.

It is likely that the heart association will increase its
antismoking activities in 1981 because of its new president,

James Schoenberger of Chicago.
The highlights:

1. "Induction of cholecystitis and pneumonitis by inhala-
tion of cigarette smoke constituents" -~- Larry Dillon, New York.
This was another report from Carl Becker's group at New York
Hospital-Cornell Medical Center (Becker co-chaired the session
at which Dillon spoke) on the alleged allergic | and other ef-
fects of smoking.

Becker had previously reported experimental induction of
inflammation of the gallbladder, and Dillon elaborated in his
report. He described details of an experiment involving anes~
thetized dogs --/8 inhaled tar-derived material (TDM) and 7,
serving as controls, inhaled a phosphate buffered saline solu-
tion. The TDM was in the form of a powder derived from the
aqueous extraction of cigarette smoke condensate. Four of the
TDM—exposed animals and two of the controls had their gall-
bladders exposed surgically at the start of the experiment. TDM
exposure lasted 60 minutes; blood samples were taken from the
s

€ ' rd, PUBLIC RELATIONS COUNSEL / - ~~
ahn |
and Associates, Inc.

(P. O. BOX 223) 13 LINCOLN ROAD ¢ GREAT NECK, N.Y. 11021 © (212) 895-7445
/

0186 ZLEZ0S