5.

Suzanne Oparil, Birmingham, Ala.: The risk of myocardial in-
farction in young women who smoke and take the pill is much ele-
vated. Hypertension usually disappears when oral contraceptives
are stopped. Smoking is the worst of all risk factors, not only
for CHD but also for lung cancer and chronic lung disease. We
try to get our patients to stop smoking, and we deal with obesity
and related problems later.

Roberta M. Goldring, New York: (She spoke mostly about noc-—
turnal angina, arrhythmias, sudden death, and sleep apnea.) Some
smoking patients gain weight when they give up cigarettes, but
that's because they don't exercise or change their eating habits.
Moderate smoking is worse than moderate overweight.

7. In a speech (and at a press conference) marking his de-
parture as AHA president, Thomas N. James, Birmingham, Ala., was
philosophical and frank as he cautioned his listeners about
“overpromise in coronary disease."

He dwelt on the cholesterol : controversy, stressing that
every patient is unique and that cholesterol may or may not be
a true risk factor in that one person. He urged care in pro~
viding dietary advice for entire populations, noting that much
of the evidence in this particular area is "soft." Doctors
should be more explicit in telling the public when their ad-
vice is based on factual evidence, when it is from logical de-
ductions and when it is actually conjectural. Doctors should be
more honest about the difference between risk reduction and
true prevention, and they should be concerned about "how much
of our advice and possibly subsequent regulation is good for
society, independent from what health benefits may or may not
accrue from such regulation. Put another way, we are coming
closer to 1984 all the time, both chronologically and philo-
sophically." .

He described as "appealing but possibly treacherous" the
growing trend to think of atherosclerosis as beginning in child-
hood. Teaching children not to consume milk, butter and eggs
might reduce their risk of getting coronary disease, he said,
but that is not really known. What if such avoidance also in-
creased their chance of getting some type of cancer or gall-
bladder disease, or suppose that their developing brains or
muscles did not grow as well?

A close look at declining mortality rates from heart at-
tacks raises more questions than it answers, James said. The
proper classification of a cause of death can be arbitrary and
thus weaken the evidence. There is the question of accuracy of
diagnosis, and other questions as well that becloud the picture.
The data tell nothing about non-fatal heart attacks or about the
existence of heart disease in the asymptomatic population. "Yet
there is a growing public belief and even claim by some phys-—
icians and scientists that we are reducing the incidence of cor-
onary disease." No single thing is known for sure to be responsible

8186 LETZOS