0022-3565/96/279 1-0435303.00/0

THE JOURNAL OF PHARMACOLOGY AND EXPERIMENTAL THERAPEUTICS

Capyright © 1996 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics
JPET 279:435-442, 1996

APPENDIX i

Vol. 279, No. 1
Printed in U.S.A.

 

Lead (Pb**) Promotes Apoptosis in Newborn Rat Cerebellar

Neurons: Pathological Implicatio

ns

ALESSANDRA OBERTO, NEVILLE MARKS, HUGH L. EVANS AND ALESSANDRO GUIDOTTI

Center for Neuropharmacology and Neurochemistry (A.O., A.G., N.M.), N.

S. Kline institute for Psychiatric esearch, Orangeburg, New York

and Department of Environmental Medicine (H.L.E., A-G.), NYU Medical Center, New York and The Psychiatric institute (A.J.), The University of

iinais at Chicago, Chicago, Ilinois
Accepted for publication June 3, 1996

 

ABSTRACT

Despite mandated reduction in environmental lead (Pb~~),
such exposure still poses a public health hazard for children,
with devastating effects on CNS development. To replicate
aspects of this neurotoxicity, we used cultured granule cells
fram newborn rat cerebella to study whether apoptotic or ne-
crotic death is the major consequence of exposure to low
micromolar concentrations of Pb*~. At a low dose, 1 nM (ECgo
= 10 uM), Pb*~ does not affect glutamate-induced neuranal
necrosis but promotes neuronal apoptosis, as characterized
morphologically by cell shrinkage and chromatin condensation,
biochemically by the typical internucleosomal DNA fragmenta-
tian and functionally by dependence on new synthesis of mac-

4
%

romolecules (cycloheximide- and actinomycin D-sensitive). The
low micromolar doses of Pp** that promote apoptosis are well
within the blood level range reported to impair CNS function in
children and to alter synaptogenesis in the neonatal rat brain.
Thus these in-vitro results suggest that the highly neurotoxic
action of Pb" ~ in the developing CNS of children might depend
on a facilitation of apoptosis. The Pb* *-elicited potentiation of
neuronal apoptasis is attenuated by treatment with the voltage-
sensitive Ca** channel agonist Bay K8644, which suggests the
possible use of this agonist for treatment of the neurotoxic
effects of PhT*.

 

Subchronic or chronic exposure to Pb** is highly neuro-
toxic, affecting particularly the developing CNS (Hammond
and Dietrich, 1990). In children, Pb~ ' blood levels as low as
1.3 to 13 uM, may affect CNS development, leading to mental
retardation, impaired visual motor coordination and perma-
nent cognitive deficits (Goldstein, 1992). Rodents exposed to
Pb** just before or after birth exhibit abnormal cytoarchi-
tectonic changes in development of the hippocampus and the
cerebral cortex, reduction in the number and diameter of
axons in the optic nerve and demyelinization of peripheral
nerves (Rodier, 1995). Recent data on the interaction of low
doses of Pb* * with neonatal brain synaptogenesis have led to
the hypothesis that this metal may interfere with the process
of synapse trimming by reducing the ratio between active
and inactive synapses (Goldstein, 1990). There appear to be
in vitro counterparts of the in vive neurotoxicity, because
embryonic hippocampal and neonatal rat cerebellar neuronal
cultures exposed to low concentrations of Pb** (1-100 »M)
fail to differentiate fully or grow (Holtzman et al., 1987; Kern
et al., 1993).

A number of mechanisms have been proposed to explain
why Pb** impairs neuronal function, including inhibition of

Received for publication February 12, 1996.

aerobic energy metabolism (Haltzman et a/., 1980), substitu-
tion of Pb'' for Cat* (Markovac and Goldstein, 1988), inhi-
bition of Na*/K*-ATPase activity (Chanez et al., 1988),
blockade of VSCCs (Audesirk G., 1993) and blockade of
NMDA-selective glutamate receptors (Ujihara and Albuquer-
que, 1992). {t has also been suggested that the influence of
Pb'* on neuronal growth, survival and differentiation is
indirectly mediated via a toxic action on glial cells (Tiffani-
Castiglioni e¢ al., 1989).

Several lines of evidence support the notion that neuro-
toxic agents may cause neuronal death in the developing
brain by two mechanisms: 1) apoptosis (Martin et al., 1988;
Oppenheim, 1991; Martin e¢ al., 1992; Franklin and Johnson,
1992; Raff et al., 1993) or 2) necrosis (Choi, 1988; Manev ef
al,, 1989, 1990; Koh et ad., 1995). Necrosis is a form of Ca**-
dependent neuronal death that may be prompted by an ex-
cessive and protracted stimulation of specific glutamate re-
ceptors. Apoptosis, on the other hand, is a form of neuronal
death that occurs during development and can be triggered
experimentally by drugs or toxins that decrease the avail-
ability of neurotrop::ie factors. Apoptosis is accompanied by
DNA laddering and is blocked in vitro by a number of protein
synthesis inhibitors.

Despite the interest in understanding the mechanisms of

 

ABBREVIATIONS: BME, basa! medium Eagle's medium, [Ca**],, intracellular caicium; FCS, fetal calf serum; DMSO, dimethy! sulfoxide; DIV, days
in vitro; NMDA, N-methy!-D-aspartate; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; VSCC, voltage-sensitive calcium channel; Pb*~, environmental lead.

 

“400505

435

29