ns Councin For TOBACCO ME SEARCIH—U.D.A., ANG. ~
° - 210 EAST Sore STREET
.* : NEW YORK, N. YF. 10022

. July 3, 1975

Deer , ol ot

The Scientific Advisory Board to The Council for Tobacco Research-U.8.A.,
Inc., in carrying out its comission to sponsor a broad progrem of research into
tobacco use and human health, has foun it useful to hold informal, unpublicized,
roundtable-conferences on a variety of subjects. Such meetings have been held
on cardiovascular effects of nicotine, psycho-physiological aspects of smoking,
. dung pathology, chronic respiratory diseases, carcinogenesis ani many other
subjects.

The Board is now planning te hold another conference focusing on areas
‘ related to the etiology ani pathogenesis of chronic respiratory diseases.

.The purposes of the meeting are to: .

(a) appraise the present state of knowledge in relation to the
overall actions of proteases and inhibitors, including such
ereas as activators of pro-enyzmes, the roles of macrophage
anfi leucocyte, and particular aspects of the inmunological
systens, in order to,

(vo) 4nduce an 4nterchange of ideas, develop perspective,

oy (c) 422.uminate new research areas ani conceive objectives denignet
tw close Gaps in present research efforts.

; , “The conference has been tentatively scheduled for the period ntey,
Septenber 8th through Tuesday morning, Septeaber 9th, of this year, at The Council
offices in New York City.

"Your works en@ interests ere considered etentticant to the general area
to be discussed, and The Counci\ very cordially invites you to atteni this meeting.

We Iook Forward, hopefully, to receiving your acceptance, and to know

" “Whether you would be willing to meke a short presentation, reviewing your particular

investigations against the 6 aims of the conference. Informality in presentation
is stressed, .

Out-of-pocket expenses will be paid by 1 The Council.
Further S.nfornation will be! forwarded to you in the near future.
" Bincerely, |

td

‘ _ — David Stone, Ph.D.