om

PROJECT 2302
IMPROVED SMOKE FLAVOR

PERIOD COVERED BY REPORT: August. 18 ~ September 16, 1960
DATE CF REPORT: September 26, 1960
PROJECT LEADER: W. H. Danker

PROPYLENE GLYCOL IN! FILLER FOR SMOKE MILDNESS.

A study has been under way for several months to determine
the maximum amount of propylene glycol we could add to fillers
without staining the paper. Both Alpine and Philip Morris
cigarettes are being tested - at room temperature and at elevated
temperatures, A range of from 4%. to 8% propylene glycol is
being used in the study, The 8 samples show paper spotting {
within a month. The 6% samples show a slight amount of spotting i
on Philip Morris cigarettes. andi frequent spotting on Alpine ciga- :
rettes in 2 months. The 4% samples show spotting only at 110°F

+ after 1 month; samples stored at 75°F did not spot in 1 month. ,

Analysis of propylene glycol has been recently made
relatively much more reliable and show much variation in
application of propylene glycol on filler. Therefore future
panel studies: will be more meaningful when accompanied by
analytical data. Our studies will continue until firm results
are determined correlating percentage propylene glycol, spott-~
ing and reduction in irritation,

; In the event. that spotting does occur at a propylene
‘ @lycol level which is threshold for irritation, Mr. J. W. ‘
Geiger has a paper which has shown no spotting at. the higher

levels of propylene glycol in filler.

. SIMULTANEOUS EVALUATIONS OF FLAVOR. AND IRRITATION

We have completed the first of a basic series of studies

on changes of flavor and irritation with changes in concentra-
tion of three flavors and of smoke. The four materials selected
to show a wide range of difference in flavor and in irritation,
were furan, acrolein, anethole and whole Philip Morris cigarette
smoke. Sensory evaluation results show strikingly different
patterns for each of these materials with change of concentra-
tion in air dilutions. Furan's flavor increases. faster than
does its irritation with Increasedi concentration. By contrast

. the reverse is true for acrolein, Irritation inereases faster

C6G-82322

 

eebunrepee ctl le Remit Wl