Principal Investigater/Program Director (Last, first, middle}; LAETLe We. Kinker~ochaeffer
tt

_ BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each persan.

 

_. NAME POSITION TITLE
Carrie W. Rinker-Schaeffer Assistant Professor, Surgery/Urology

Director of Urological Research
EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

 

 

 

YEAR
INSTITUTION AND LOCATION DEGREE CONFERRED FIELD OF STUDY
The University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH B.S. : 1986 Chemistry/Biochemistry
The University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY Ph.D. 1992 Biochemistry

 

 

 

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Concluding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principat investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnef typically will include ail individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific davelanm--* °: execution of the project. Include present membership on
any Federal Government pupu aavisory commimee. List, in chronological order, the titles, all authors, and complete reterences to all publications during the
past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Research and Professional Experience
1979-1980 Research Student, Laboratory of Dr. Edward Hall, The Northeastern Ohio Universities
College of Medicine, Rootstown, OH

1980 NSF Summer Science Training Program Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN

1982 Research Student, Laboratory of Dr. Richard Depew, The Northeastern Ohio Universities
College of Medicine, Rootstown, OH

1982-1985 Undergraduate Research Assistant, Department of Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, and

Molecular Genetics, The University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH

1982-1986 Undergraduate Student in Chemistry/Biochemistry, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH

1986-1992 Doctoral Student in Biochemistry at the University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY

1992-1994 SPORE (Special Program of Research Excellence) Fellow in the Laboratory of Dr. John
Isaacs, The Brady Urological Institute and Department of Oncology, The Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD

10/94-present Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery, Director of Urological Research, Division of
Urology, member of the Committee on Cancer Biology, Committee on Human Genetics, and
the Cancer Center, University of Chicago School of Medicine, Chicago, IL

Honors and Awards

Sigma Xi Award for Outstanding Research at the University of Kentucky, 1992

Sigma Xi Grants-in-Aid of Research Award June 1990 - June 1991

Travel Award from the University of Kentucky for participation in the NATO Advanced Workshop " The RAS

Superfamily of Oncogenes" in Crete, Greece (May 1991)
Finalist, Eloise Gerry Fellowship, Sigma Delta Epsilon/Graduate Women in Science (1991)
Professional Organizations

 

American Association for the Advancement of Science

American Association for Cancer Research, Associate Member

Society for Basic Urological Research

Metastasis Research Society

Association for Women in Cancer Research

Member of the University of Chicago Department of Surgery Research Committee

i
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91} (Form Page 6) Page : FE
Number pages consecutively at the bottom thraugnout the aoplicanon. Co nofuse suffixes such as 3a, 3b.

40002609