Tur Councit For Tospacco REsEaARCH—U.S.A., Inc.
900 ‘}3IIRD AVENUE
NEW YORK, N.Y, 10022

>

ROBERT F. GERTENBACH
PRESIDENT

October 7, 1986

Stanley Cohen, Ph.D.

Dept. of Biochemistry

Vanderbilt University School of Medicine
Nashville, TN 37232

Re: Grant No. 1991
Dear Dr. Cohen:

 

The Council for Tobacco Research, USA, Inc. is pleased to offer you a new grant in the
amount of $80,000.00 for the period from January 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987 for the study
proposed in your application dated June 1, 1986. It is understood that this grant is made
subject to acceptance by institutional authorities as heretofore, We recognize that this
appropriation is somewhat less than you requested, but hope it will suffice to maintain your
study at a productive level. If you wish to accept it, please notify us accordingly and submit a
revised budget to show how the available funds will be distributed. A new budget sheet is
enclosed for this purpose.

The award is made without guarantee of support beyond December 31, 1987, even
though we recognize that your application proposes a study extending beyond that date.
Therefore, if by May 31, 1987 you submit to us a formal renewal application, including a
report of your progress to date, your request will receive consideration in competition for a
available funds. {

Your attention is called to the enclosed "Important Procedural Information for
Grantees", Please fill in the attached "Notice of Research Project" and return it to me. Drs.
Harmon McAllister, Research Director, and David Stone, Associate Research Director, will
serve as your primary contact with our scientific staff on matters concerning your grant.
Please consult them as questions or problems arise, and keep us informed about the progress of
your study.

As Principal Investigator, you should know that CTR recovers unexpended balances at
the end of each grant year. We suggest that you personally keep an accurate record of
expenditures and commitments to assure that you agree with your institution's official financial
Statement at the end of the grant year. Please note that year-end deficits cannot be recovered
from CTR, even from funds awarded in a subsequent year. Finally, please be aware that our
failure to receive timely annual financial statements from your grants office will stop further
grant payments. Appropriate forms will be sent to your financial officer at the end of the
grant year. Administrative problems are relatively rare and we hope that this statement of our
fiscal policies will obviate any possible misunderstandings.

Cordially,

TO tiled

Robert F. Gertenbach

Encls.
ce: Mr. John Hash /
RFG:mjs

bee: Auditor, LP, RO'K, Monitor, DC, MJS, File