Ae

 

. Nagle

    

R. O. Stewart
C. 5. Muije

    
   
 

C.. Broach Das

      

DATE: March 21, 1977 °
SUBJECT: Qualitative Research *

  

Tais recommends that the Brand Groups have the option to conduct gualitetive
research for product concept und advertising campuign g
through its advertising agencies sr new Products consult:

   

Rationale .

The Brand Groups have the Frimary responsibility to develos product cane pts
and advertising campaigns; Marketing Research has the primary responsi?

7 Sto evaluate those concepis/campaigns developed. The basic rationale for my
"proposal deals with delegating ¢ thority te the Brand Groups commensurate

with that responsibility while, at the same time, not conflicting with Marketi

St Research's responsibility. . . :

   

 

        

   

To meet its respons ‘bility for concept/campaign development, the Brard
Groups work through vertising agencies and new preducts consultants. The
quality of the concepts/cumpaigis developed is highly dependent upon the
combined judgment, intuition and creative capacity of -he individuals involved.
‘Phat quality clso is on what the individual's performance is based,

 

  

Recause of these

 

ctors, lbelieve the Brund Groups, who have the ultimcie
tlity, also should have the latitude to determine who will conduct
qualitative reseerch. .

 

Qualitative research is highly interpretational. That is ics prime defic.eney.
However, that te ts prime benefit to the Brand Groups. Ll is the interpretstion
which is important since it aids the Brand Groups in their judgments shout a
concept or campaign. lt is their judgment on wh:c ly in recemmending
concepts/campaigns for evaluation. Tas, [believe il is ap:
Brand Groups should have the avthority to determ
Hien needs, design how that information wit! be obtained, and irterpret the
results.

        

 
     

Teo exercise thi
who conducts 4
an advertising

  

aulliority, the Brand Groups sheule kave the option t
ita: research. The options are: B&W Marketing
gency, or anew products consultant. [tis net my imention to

680136612