—

CENTRAL VENOUS PRESSURE DURING HYPERVENTILATION 1541

is a high concentration of CO, in the inspired gas.

Tenney (12} found an incréased titer of sym-
patho-adrenal catechol amines in the blood of
hypercapneic animals and cited evidence to sug-
gest that CO, breathing is attended by an epineph-
Tine-like response of the cardiovascular system in
man. Our finding that prior administration of
phentolamine reswits in a central venous pressure
response during CO, hyperventilation which is
similar to that seen with air hyperventilation is
additional evidence in man to support this sug-
gestion.

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

Intrdpleural, i.¢., esophageal, and central venous
pressure and the resultant transmural central ve-
nous pressure were measured and registered si-
multaneously in normal subjects at rest, during
hyperventilation while breathing air, during hyper-
ventilation while breathing 5 per cent CO, and
during hyperventilation while breathing 5 per cent
CO, after intravenous administration of 5 mg. of
phentolamine methanesulfonate. The following
observations were made:

7. Mean intrapleural pressure fell about the
sarné amount in each kind of hyperventilation.

2. Mean central venous pressure fell regularly
during air hyperventilation but remained essen-
tialy unchanged during CO, hyperventilation.
Mean central venous pressure, however, fell sig-
nificantly during CO, hyperventilation after phen-
tolamine administration.

3. The pressure distending the central veins,
the transmural pressure, increased during hyper-
ventilation in almost all experiments because in-
trapleural pressure fell more than central venous
pressure. The transmural pressure was signifi-
cantly greater during CO, than during air hyper-
ventilation because central venous pressure did not
fall appreciably.

4. The increase in transmural central venous
pressure supports the suggestion that blood shifts
centrally during hyperventilation.

5. The greater transmural central venous pres-
sure during CO, than during air hyperventilation
is consistent with the suggestion that blood is

pumped from the central veins less rapidly. This
could be attributed to the slower heart rate with
CO, hyperventilation than with air hyperventila-
tion. It could mean also that diastolic ventricular
tone is increased with the high concentration of
CO, in the inspired gas.

6. The central venous pressure response to CO,
overbreathing after phentolamine administration
is additional evidence that CO, breathing is as-
sociated with an increase in the circulating level of
catechol amines.

REFERENCES

1. Eckstein, J. W., and Hamilton, W. K. The effect
of hyperventilation on effective right atrial pres-
sure in man (abstract). J. clin. Invest. 1958, 37,
890.

2. Eckstein, J. W., Hamilton, W. K., and McCammond,
J. M. Pressure-volume changes in the forearm
veins of man during hyperventilation. J. clin. In-
vest. 1958, 37, 956.

3. Brown, E. B., Jr. Physiological effects of hyper-
ventilation. Physiol. Rev. 1953, 33, 445.

4, Burton, A. C. and Yamada, S. Relation between
blood pressure and flow in the human foreanm.

. J. appl. Physiol. 1951, 4, 329. ~

5. Gaver, O. H., and Sieker, H. O. The continuous
recording of central venous pressure changes from
an arm vein. Circulat. Res. 1956, 4, 74.

6. Cherniak, R. M., Farhi, L. E., Armstrong, B. W., and
Proctor, D. F. A comparison of esophageal and
intrapleural pressure in man. J. appl. Physiol.

: 1955, 8, 203.

7. Worton, E. W., and Bedell, G. N. Determination of
vital capacity and maximal breathing capacity:
Simple inexpensive method for use in normal sub-
jects and in patients with lung disease. J. Amer.

. med. Ass. 1957, 165, 1652.

& Fisher, R. A. Statistical Methods for Research
Workers, 10th ed. Edinburgh, Oliver and Boyd,
Lid, 1946.

9 Burnum, J. F., Hickam, J. B., and McIntosh, H. D.
The effect of hypocapnia on arterial blood pres-
sure. Circulation 1954, 9, 89.

10. Gleason, W. L., Berry, J. N., Mauney, F. M. and
McIntosh, H. D. The hemodynamic effects of
hyperventilation (abstract). Clin. Res. 1958, 6,
127,

11. Weissler, A. M., Leonard, J. J., and Warren, J. V.
Effects of posture and atropine on the cardiac out-
put. J. chn. Invest 1957, 36, 1656.

12. Tenney, S. M. Mechanism of hypertension during
diffusion respiration. Anesthesiology 1956, 17, 768.

PUBLICATIONS 011453

10330340