Reprinted from Tre Jourwat of Cuinicat Investication, Vol. 37, No 11. pp. 1537-1541, November, 1958
Prioted In U. S A.

CHANGES IN TRANSMURAL CENTRAL VENOUS PRESSURE IN
MAN DURING HYPERVENTILATION }-?

By JOHN W. ECKSTEIN * anp WILLIAM K. HAMILTON

(From the Hemodynamic Laboratory, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, Department of
Internal Medicine, and the Division of Anesthesiolagy, Department of Surgery,
State University of lowa College of Medicine, Lowa City, Towa)

(Submitted for publication April 28, 1958; accepted July 24, 1958)

We demonstrated that large amounts of blood
shift from the forearm veins during hvperventila-
tion (2). If this effect were generalized in the
periphery of the body the volume of blood in the
central venous reservoir might increase. An in-
crease in pressure in the central veins would be
evidence to support this suggestidn. The fall in
peripheral venous pressure which occurs during
hyperventilation (2, 3), howevet, implies that
central venous pressure also decreases. This
makes our thesis less attractive. Still, the trans-
mural pressure (4), the net pressute acting to dis-
tend the central veins, could increase during over-
breathing if the pressure surrounding the veins
Gntrapleural pressure) decreased more than did
the pressure within them.

This study was undertaken to assess the nature
and magnitude of changes in mean transmural
central venous pressure during hyperventilation
and to see whether the changes were consistent
with our suggestion that blood shifts centrally
during overbreathing.

METHODS

Subjects were studied in the right lateral detubitus
position with the right arm extended downward through
an opening in the table. Changes in central venows pres-
sure were measured with a needle in the antecubital
vein of the dependent arm according to the method of
Gaver and Sieker (5). Changes in intrapleural pres-
Sure, measured as changes in esophageal pressure, were
obtained by means of a small, open-ended, water-filled
polycthylene tube The tip of this tube was placed in
the lower third of the esophagus It is recognized that

1 Read in part by title at the Fiftieth Annual Meeting
of the American Society for Clinical Investigation in
Atlantic City, N. J., May 5, 1958 (1). ,

2 Supported by a research grant (H-2644) from the
National Heart Institute of the Public Health Service
and aided by grants from the Iowa Heart Association
and the Tobacco Industry Research Committee

Established Investigator of the American
Association.

Heart

esophageal pressure is not identeal with intrapleural
Pressure; however, changes in the two pressures tend
to be parallel (6). Cherniak, Farhi, Armstrong and
Proctor (6) observed that phasic deviations from this
parallelism which did develop during spontaneous breath-
ing resulted in intrapleiaral pressures which were con-
sistently more negative than esophageal pressures.
Fven during intermittent positive pressure breathing the
mean intrapleural pressure was more negative than the
mean esophageal pressure. Thus ovr recorded values
fot transmural central venous pressure are tess than
those which actually existed.

Central venous and esophageal pressures were meas-
ured with Statham 0 to 5 cm. Hg strain gauges. The
difference between these two pressures, the transmural
central venous pressure, was measured with a Sanborn
differential pressure The reference point
for pressure was the midsternal line. End-expiratory CO,
concentration was measured with a Liston-Becker co,
analyzer and ventilation was monitored with a gas meter
(7). All three pressure values and CQ, concentration
were registered simultaneously with a Sanborn direct-
writing osc ograph.

After resting values were obtained the subjects, mate
medical students. were asked to hyperventilate with
Maximal inspirations and passive exptrations. They were
Prompted in order to keep ventilation above 25 L. per
minute and to maintain a reduction of at Jeast 10 mm.
He in end-expiratory CO, concentration. Overbreathing
was continned until values hecame stable. The period of
overbreathing usually exceeded two minutes. This pro-
cedure was repeated in some experiments with 5 per
cent CO, in the inspired gas. In some experiments over-
breathing with S per cent CO, was repeated after the
intravenous administration of 5 mg. of phentolamine
methansulfonate (Regitine®).¢

Reported mean pressures were obtained by counting
squares under the curves registered by electrical inte-
gration of the output of the manometers. The sensitivity
of the amplifying system was adjusted so that respira-
tory changes in the electrically integrated pressure curves
occupied at least 2 to 3 cm. on the recording paper. In
most experiments I cm. vertica'ly on the recording paper
was equal to 20 or $0 mm Hg. Pressures were read
to the nearest 0.5 mm. He.

Statistical analysis of the data was done by the meth-
ods of Fisher (8).

4 Supplied by Ciba Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.

transducers.

1537

PUBLICATIONS

10330336

 

011449