1540 JOHN W. ECKSTEIN AND WILLIAM K. HAMILTON

Effect of phentolamine administration on trans-
mural venous pressure during CO hyperventila-
tion
Prior administration of 5.0 mg. of phentalamine

methanesulfonate resulted in lower transmural

central venous pressure during CO, hyperventila-
tion in each of five experiments (Table 11). The
difference between the pressures measured before
and after phentolamine was significant and aver-
aged 1.9 mm. Hg (p< 0.05). This difference
could not be attributed to changes in esophageal
pressure, CO, tension or ventilation. The dif-
ference occurred because central venous pressure
was lower in each instance after phentolamine

{p < 0.02}.

The fact that central venous pressure is lower
during CQ, hyperventilation following phentola-
mine was confirmed in four additional experiments
in which transmural pressure was not measured.

DISCUSSION

Burnum, Hickam and McIntosh (9) found a
substantial increase in the cardiac output of supine
subjects during air hyperventilation. This wis
confirmed by Gleason, Berry, Mauney and Mc-
Intosh (10) who also demonstrated a similar int-
crease in cardiac output in upright subjects dur-
ing air hyperventilation. The observed increases
were proportionate to the increases in heart rate
so that stroke volume was maintained. Weissler,
Leonard and Warren (11) found that stroke vol-
ume was not maintained in upright subjects dur-
ing the tachycardia induced by atropine. They
also demonstrated that cardiac output didi not rise
despite the marked increase in heart rate. On the
basis of these observations and their own datz,
Gleason, Berry, Mauncy and McIntosh (10) sug-
gested that hyperventilation, unlike atropine, aids
in maintaining a more adequate central blood
reservoir. The suggestion that reservoir volume
increases during overbreathing is consistent with
the data and interpretations of these investigators.
It is supported strongly (not proven) by our oh:
servations that blood shifts from the peripheral
veins of part of the body (2) and that transmural
central yenous pressure increases with hyper
ventilation.

Hyperventilation could shift blood centrally by
the “sucking” effect of inspiration or by the

PUBLICATIONS

10330339

“pushing” effect of peripheral venous constriction.
We demonstrated before that active venous con-
striction during overbreathing does push large
quantities of biood from the forearm (2). The
same experiments also showed that the amount of
hieod pushed from the forearm by venous con:
striction was much greater than the ammount sucked
froni the forearm during the mspiratory efforts.
These findings in the limb lead us to suggest that
venous constriction may be more important gen«
erally than the aspirating effect of inspiration in
moving blood into the central reservoir.

The pressure within a fluid-filled container
such as the central venous system depends upon
the volume within it and the tonic state of its
walls. The fact that central venous pressure is
greater during CO, than during air hyperventila-
tion suggests to us that CO, overbreathing is as-
saciated with a greater central volume. The
only other factor which could explain the in-
creased pressure would be constriction of the cen-
tral veins. In our opinion central venous con-
striction of a degree sufficient to account for a
major share of the increased pressure with air
or CO, overbreathing would be rather unlikely
if the slope of the resting central venous pressure-
volume curve is at all similar to that seen in the
peripheral veins.

it is interesting to speculate regarding mecha-
nisms which could explain a greater central vol-
ume with CO, hyperventilation. If all the periph-
era) veins respond as do those of the forearm (2)
no more blood would be shifted from the periphery
with CQO, than with air hyperventilation. If this
is true the only ather possible explanation for an
imecreased central volume is that blood is extracted
from the reservoir at a slower rate (lower cardiac
output) while breathing CO,. There is some evi-
dence for this in the report of Gleason and co-
workers (10) who observed that cardiac output
increased less while overbreathing CO, than while
overbreathing ait. The failure of dhe heart to
extract blood from the reservoir as rapidly may
result from the fact that the tachycardia of hyper-
ventilation is less while breathing CO, than while
breathing air (9). On the other hand the failure
of the heart to extract blood as rapidly despite a
higher transmural central venous pressure may
indicate that cardiac filling is reduced because of
increased diastolic ventricular tone when there

011452