‘Tux JourNAL OF BroLogicaL CHEMISTRY
© 1991 hy The American Society for Hiochemistry and Molecular Bialogy, Inc.

Vol. 266, No. 19, Issue of duly 5, pp. 12612 12617. 1991
Printed in USA

Regional and Mechanistic Differences in Platelet-derived Growth
Factor-Isoform-induced Alterations in Cytosolic Free Calcium in
Porcine Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells*

(Received for publication, February 19, 1991)

Pamela A. Dilibertot, Gerry Gordon, and Brian Hermani§1

From the tLaboratories for Cell RBiciogy, Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy and the §Cancer Cell Biology Program,
Lineberger Cancer Research Center, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27399

Three specific platelet-derived growth factor
(PDGF) isoforms are thought to bind with differing
affinities to two distinct PDGF receptors which
undergo activation following dimerization. Recent evi-
dence has been presented that marked differences exist
between the ability of PDGF-AA versus PDGF-AB and
PDGF-BB to stimulate alterations in second messen-
gers in cultures of vascular smooth muscle cells
(VSMC), a result which was thought to be due to low
numbers of the A-type receptor in this cell type (Sach-
inidis, A., Locker, R., Vetter, W., Tatje, D., and Hoppe,
J. (1990) J. Biol. Chem. 265, 10238-10243, 1990), In
particular, PDGF-BB and PDGF-AB but not PDGF-
AA could elicit alterations in cytosolic free calcium
(Ca**,). However, because these studies were per-
formed on large cell populations using biochemical as-
says of PDGF activity, a minor PDGF-AA-Ca?'-re-
sponsive population of cells might go undetected. To
test this possibility, VSMC were isolated from either
thoracic or abdominal pig aorta, and alterations in
Ca**; were monitored using Multiparameter Digitized
Video Microscopy following stimulation with PDGF
isoforms alone, or either before or after exposure of
VSMC to 5 mm EGTA. PDGF-AA-responsive cells were
found to exist only in cultures of thoracic VSMC,
caused oscillations in Ca”*;, represented 20% of the
PDGF-BB-responsive cells, and were subsequently re-
sponsive to PDGF-BB. PDGF-BB elicited monophasic
alterations in Ca?*; in both thoracic and abdominal
VSMC. Prior addition of EGTA inhibited PDGF-AA
but not PDGF-BB-induced alterations in Ca?*;, Addi-
tion of EGTA during PDGF-AA-induced Ca**; oscilla-
tions inhibited subsequent oscillations in Ca”*;, while
addition of EGTA at the peak of the PDGF-BB Ca**
response resulted in a more rapid return of Ca**; to
prestimulation levels. These data suggest that regional
differences in the distribution of PDGF-A- and B-type
receptor exists in viva, and that activation of the A-
and B-type PDGF receptors results in distinct altera-
tions in Ca’*;,

* This work was supported by Grants AG07218, AG10104, 2-PO1-
CA29589, and 2-P30-C.A16086 from the National Institutes of Health.
the Gustavus and Louise Pfeiffer Research Foundation, and Grant
FRA-383 from the American Cancer Society. The costs of publication
of this article were defraved in part by the payment of page charges.
This article must therefore be hereby marked “advertisement” in
accordance with 18 U.S.C. Section 1734 salely to indicate this fact.

{To whom correspondence should be addressed: Dept. of Cell
Biology and Anatomy, CB 7090, 232 Taylor Bidg., University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599.

PDGF" elicits a variety of biological activities in VSMC
(mitogenesis, chemotaxis, and vasoconstriction) through the
existence of distinct PDGF isoforms and receptors (1-4).
Human PDGF consists of two disulfide-bonded homologous
peptide chains, A and B (PDGF-AB). Each chain is the
product of a distinct cellular gene, their expression being
independently regulated and the two chains sharing approxi-
mately 50% homology (5-7). Porcine PDGF appears to be a
BB homodimer as is PDGF isolated from most animal species
(except human} (8). Skeletal and smooth muscle, growth
factor-stimulated fibroblasts and a number of tumor cell lines
produce exclusively PDGF-AA (9-11).

These different types of PDGF molecules are thought to
bind to at least two distinct types of PDGF receptors. The
originally described receptor (B-type, 180 kDa, similar to the
CSF-1 receptor) was found to bind the B chain of PDGF, is
located on chromosome 4 and possesses tyrosine kinase activ-
ity (12). A second type of PDGF receptor (A-type, 170 kDa,
similar to the c-kit gene product) is thought to bind both
PDGF A and B chains, is located on chromosome 4, and also
contains tyrosine kinase activity (13). Since the receptors
display some selectivity in terms of which PDGF chains they
can bind, and because active PDGF molecules are thought to
exist as dimers, a number of models have recently been
proposed where PDGF binding to its receptors requires di-
merization of the A- and B-type receptor subunits to elicit
functional activity (14-16). These models predict that dimer-
ization of two A-type receptors could lead to binding of all
three types of PDGF isoforms (AA, BB, AB), while dimeri-
zation of two B-type receptors could only lead to binding of
PDGF-BB (although some data suggests that PDGF-AB can
bind to cells containing only the B-type receptor albeit at 10-
fold lower affinity than PDGF-BB). A key aspect of these
models is that in cells lacking the A-type PDGF receptor,
there should be no response to either PDGF-AA or PDGF-
AB.

The mechanisms by which PDGF binding to its receptor is
transduced into biological activity are still unclear. Our lab-
oratory has been studying the role of POGF-induced altera-
tion in Ca**; in PDGF-stimulated mitogenesis (17-21). PDGF
addition to a variety of cells causes a rapid transient increase
in Ca’*,; within seconds of addition (22), and results from our
laboratory as well as others (17-21, 23-31) demonstrate that
inhibition of POGF-stimulated increases in Ca**; also inhibit

? The abbreviations used are: PGF, platelet-derived growth factor;
Ca*™*,, cytosolic free calcium; VSMC, vascular smooth muscle cells;
MDVM, multiparameter digitized video microscopy; DMEH-H, Dul-
becco’s madified Eagle’s medium with high glucose; EGTA, [ethyl-
enebis(oxyetheylenenitriloljtetraacetic acid; IP3, inositol 1,4,5-tris-
phosphate.

12612