of (a) trace constituents of food. (b) gut contents. or (c)
products. of the actions of the gut flora.

(G) Open. chain.means the absence of any, ring structure.
(H) Readily. hydrolysed. means known to be or, in the
absence of any contra-indication: based on structure.
assumed to be hydrolysed either during food! prep-
aration or by physiological processes after consumption.
(I) Simply. branched means branched at C-C bonds, with
branches of two or more C atoms, at not. more than
two. points along the main chain, with no secondary.
branching. Multiple branching, consisting only of t-car-
bon moieties, falls within this definition. of simply.
branched.

(J) Sterically hindered: means. posing steric hindrance to
a functional group. equivalent to or greater than that
exhibited by o-tert-butyl or 2,6-disubstitution on an aro-
matic ring:

(K). Structurally. closely related means

(a). a. member,. not more than two: carbon atoms.

removed! in a homologous series, except ethoxy and
higher homologues ofia methoxy compound;

(b) a primary, alcohol and its aldehyde, or either of
these and the corresponding carboxylic acid;

(c):a secondary alcoho! and the corresponding ketone:
(d) structural isomers unlikely. to involve steric: Kin-
drance of a functional! group:

(e):compounds with the same functional groups, the
remainder of the compound being known to: be easily
and harmlessly’ metabolized:
(f} non-sterically: hindered: esters. thioesters. acetals.
ketals and their components.

Procedure for the decision tree

In the light of the. chemical structure. of the sub-
stance and using the accompanying definitions,
answer the following questions. moving in the order

indicated by the question: numbers in the ‘no! or ‘ves"

colunins until a classification—I, HI. or III-is
reached. In bordertine cases, choose II in: preference
to. I. and HI! in preference to: II.. In cases: where a
structure is subdivided into individual residues, clas-
sify the whole structure according to the most: conser-
vative classification of the separate residues. In treat-
ing functional groups, consider the entire. group, not
the individual fragments (e.g. a. thioamide, RCSNH),
is a thioamide not a thione and an:amine; a hydrazine,
RNHNH,, is not. two amines: an anhydride is not
an ether and two vicinal ketones)”

Examples with answers:

if If (and following step or
‘no’ ‘yes’ classification)
7 proceed to.... NH
1. Is the substance a normal constituent. of the body (F) or an 2! I oN neS
optical isomer of such? A C ] A J
This question throws into class I all normal constituents: of! body N owen
tissues and fluids, including normal: metabolites. Hormones are H
excluded, as are, by implication, the metabolites of environmental NO YES
and foodicontaminants or those resulting from disease states. (2) (Class f)
2. Does the substance contain any of the following functional 3 HI NO»

groups: an aliphatic (A) secondary amine or a salt thereof, cyano,
N-nitroso, diazo (e.g, CH,N,),. triazeno. (RN=NNH,) or qua-
ternary nitrogen, except in any. of the following forms:
> C=N*R,, > C==N*H, or the hydrochloride or sulphate salti
of a primary or tertiary amine?
Questions 2;.3.and 4 are a means ofi placing: in class III those
structures that contain:elements or valency. states.often associated
with enhanced toxicity: Halo-, nitro-, N-nitroso- and! diazo- com-
pounds, organophosphates, quaternary nitrogen compounds
(although note modifying comment), and similar xenobiotic struc-
tures should cause ‘yes’ answers to questions 2 and 3 andia ‘no’
answer to: question 4.

 

3. Does the structure contain elements other than carbon, hydro-
gen, oxygen, nitrogen or divalent’ sulphur?

4. Do all elements not listed in question 3 occur only: as (a):

a sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium or ammonium salt
of a carboxylic acid, er (b) a sulphate or hydrochloride of an
amine, or (c) a sodium, potassium or calcium sulphonate, sulpha-
mate or sulphate?. (If the answer is yes, treat. as the free acid,
amine, unsulphonated or unsulphated compound, except for the
purposes of questions 24 and 33, and’ proceed.)

This is intended to let through, for further consideration, certain

acid, amine, sulphonate and sulphate salts. Sulphamate salts are

treatedi as. such: because they, are noti readily hydrolysed.

CH =0HCH,N =C=S a.

Se
NO YES:
(3) (Class.
Il)
f
a) 4 ;
soe CH, CNH CHCLy
NO YES
(3) (4)
HI 7 CHCl]; nHso,No
aN
Kd
NO YES
(Class (7)
IL)

S68£P800