of (a) trace constituents. of food, (b) gut contents. or (¢):

products of the actions ofithe gut flora.
(G) Openichain means the absence of! any ring structure.
{H) Readily hydrolysed’ means known to. be or, in the

absence. of any. contra-indication based on structure.,

assumed to be hydrolysed either during food prep-
aration or by. physiological processes after consumption.
(I) Simply branched: means branched at C-C bonds, with
branches. of two. or more C atoms, at not more than
two points along the main chain, with no secondary
branching: Multiple branching; consisting only of 1-car-
bon: moieties, falls within: this definition of simply
branched.
(J) Sterically hindered’ means posing. steric hindrance. to
a functional group: equivalent to. or greater than: that
exhibited by o-tert-butyl or 2,6-disubstitution on an aro:
matic ring.
(K) Structurally closely related. means
(a): a member, not more than two carbon atoms
removed, in: a homologous. series. excepti ethoxy: and
higher homologues.of a methoxy. compound;
(b) a: primary: alcohol andi its aldehyde, or either of
these and the corresponding carboxylic acid;
(c) a secondary alcohol and the corresponding ketone:
(d) structural isomers unlikely to. involve steric hin-
drance of a functional group,

(e) compounds with the same functional groups.. the
remainder of the compound being known to be easily,
and harmlessly metabolized:
(f), non-sterically, hindered esters. thioesters. acetals.
ketals and their components.

Procedure for the decision tree

In the light of the chemical structure of the. sub-
stance andi using the accompanying, definitions,
answer the following: questions, moving in the. order
indicated by the question numbers in the ‘no’ on “yes*
colunins’ untill a classification—I, I, or HI—is
reached..In borderline cases, choose II in preference
to. I, and HI in: preference to II. In cases where a
structure is. subdivided into individual! residues, clas-
sify the whole structure according to the: most conser-
vative classification.of the separate residues. In treat-
ing functional groups, consider the entire group, not
the individual fragments (e.g. a thioamide, RCSNH;,
is.a thioamide not a thione and an amine; a hydrazine,
RNHNH,, is not two amines; an anhydride is not
an ether andi two. vicinal ketones).

Examples with: answers

Ifi if (andi following step or
‘no’ ‘yes’ classification)
... proceed: to... . NH,
1. Is the substance a. normal constituent of the body (F). or an 2: I oN nes,
optical isomer. ofi such?, i I ye yy
This question: throws into class I all normal constituents of body. Su owen
tissues and fluids, including normal metabolites. Hormones are H
excluded, as are, by implication, the metabolites of environmental NO YES
and food contaminants or those resulting from. disease states. Q) (Class I)
2. Does the substance contain any of the following functional 3 Tt No
groups: an aliphatic (A) secondary amine or a salt thereof, cyano, CH,=CHCH,N=C=5 A
N-nitroso, diazo (e.g. CH,N,),. triazeno: (RN—NNH;) or qua- ~
ternary’ nitrogen, except in any of the following forms: SS
>C=N*R,, >C=N7*H, or the hydrochloride or sulphate salt NO: YES:
of a primary or tertiary amine? (3) (Class
Questions 2; 3.and 4 are a means of placing in class III those 005)
structures that contain elements or valency states often associated
with enhanced toxicity. Halo-, nitro-, N-nitroso- and. diazo- com-
pounds, organophosphates, quaternary nitrogen compounds
(although note modifying comment), and similar xenobiotic. struc-
tures should cause. "yes’ answers to questions 2 and 3 and.a ‘no’
answer to: question 4.
3. Does the structure contain elements other than carbon, Hydro- 5 4 i
n, oxygen, nitrogen or divalent sulphur? CH3 CNH CHCl
ge yg' 8 P NO YES
(5): (4)
4. Do all elements not listed in question 3 occur only: as (a): It 7 CHCly — NHso3No
a sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium or ammonium salt NS
of a carboxylic acid, or (b) a sulphate or hydrochloride of an c j
amine, or (c) a sodium, potassium or calcium sulphonate, sulpha- Ne
mate or sulphate?: (If the answer is yes, treat as the free acid,, NO YES
amine, unsulphonated or unsulphated' compound, except for the (Class (7)
purposes of questions 24 and 33, and proceed.) 065)

This is intended to let through, for further consideration, certain
acid, amine, sulphonate and sulphate salts. Sulphamate salts are
treated! as such because they are noti readily hydrolysed.

GO6EPS00