2) Supplements

A)

B)

If the test division has a SUNDAY METRO or Independent

supplement, scheduling a spread should not be a problem.

However, in FAMILY WEEKLY and PARADE markets, a national
..8pread may not be available for cut-over. df this occurs,

a single page 4-color in the supplement can replace the
spread.

If newspapers are the only alternative for replacing the
spread, again use a 1500-line 2-color or ROP 4-color ad
translating on a two-for-one basis of TA impressions.

Execution of Test Translations - It is imperative that the agencies

continually monitor the execution of media translations.

A procedure

must be established so that copies of each test publication are

checked for accuracy.

These publications (both newsstand and subscription)

should be received directly from the test area.

Our experience thus far with magazine and supplement copy changes

indicates there are several recurrent problems which can seriously
detract from the accuracy of the test:

-- There have been numerous instances of magazines scheduling

incorrect copy in the test areas. In good faith, the
publications make every effort to ensure an accurate copy
change; however, realizing the mechanical complexities of
plate changes, correct shipment of magazines, and mailing
of subscription copies, occasional error is a reality.

The reproduction of test area copy is often poor parti-

cularly in the Sunday supplements, PARADE and FAMILY
WEEKLY.

When copy is scheduled in a regional edition or MNI, the
ad is prone to be "banked" with other regional ads.
Therefore, ad positioning and separation from competitive
advertising are usually less than desirable.

Certainly, some of the problens related to poor reproduction and
positioning will have to be tolerated.
with the publications can often climinate or minimize these problems.
Makegoods or rebates should be requested as judgment dictates.

Scheduling incorrect copy in the test area will always require a full

However, close coordination

makegood or credit.

Out-of-Home Considerations - Usually, the dcsired O-O-H plan can be
scheduled in the test area without need for adjustment.
O-O-H requirement cannot be exactly met, adjustments will have to be

When a plan's

2609 0F00%