O

i

-- In some instances, a national ad is not available for cut-
over in certain magazines and Sunday supplements.

~- A number of publications do not have split-run capabilities
. (e.g., OUI, ANAF TIMES, SAGA).

The following discussion will outline the preferred methods for a direct -
translation of media and the means for replacing the advertising impres-
sions of publications which cannot be directly translated. This discussion
assumes the translation of a page 4-color space unit; consideration will

be given to the replacement of spreads at a later point.

Direct Translation
1) Magazines (In order of preference)

A) Regional/Metro Editions - Some magazines have regional or
metro editions available with distribution patterns that
may generally conform to the boundaries of a test area.
Extensive spill-out circulation may, however, cause this
to be impractical.

B) Magazine Network (A division of MNI) - This network offers
a variety of magazine combination buys in more than 100
SMSA's. The feasibility of using this network will depend
upon the availability of magazines compatible with the
media strategy. The cost of this network should be compared
to that of regional/metro editions in the same magazines--
the less expensive, obviously, being preferred.

C) Split Run - Most of the mass~-circulation magazines have
this capability but can easily differ in (1) the type area
(region, state, metro area) available for a copy change;
(2) ability to control subscription and newsstand copies;
(3) minimum circulation for copy change; and (4) plate
change costs. Split runs are generally the best means of
targeting the circulation of test copy, minimizing spill-in
and spill-out copies. However, experience to date has
shown that the probability for error is significant.

NOTE: In any of the above where significant spill-out
circulation is occurring, a particular concern exists
when testing a new brand as the product may not be
available in some areas where the ad runs. A disclaimer
(e.g., “Available Only in Metropolitan St. Louis") should
appear in the copy if significant spill-out circulation
‘is anticipated.

2) Supplements

A) SUNDAY METRO Supplements and Independents ~ Any copy or
additional insertions can be scheduled for the normal
insertion cost.

6809 0700S ©