B) PARADE and FAMILY WEEKLY ~ The current policy of "National
Only" cigarette advertising in PARADE and FAMILY WEEKLY
requires cutting-over of existing corporate advertisin
4f use is to be made of these publications.

8

Media Replacement - The basis for substituting one publication with
another in a test area is predicated on replacing target audience
impressions. In this instance, the target audience impressions
delivered by a non-translatable publication are replaced by an
equivalent number of TA impressions through another vehicle. Here
are the suggested guidelines for media replacement, in order of

preference:

1) Magazines

A) Other Magazines - Determine if there is another magazine
with similar editorial content and readership which has
either a regional, metro, MNI, or split-run capability.
If so, target audience impressions are replaced on a
one-to-one basis.

Example: Three page 4-color insertions in PENTHOUSE
can replace six page 4-color insertions in
OUI, assuming OUI delivers 35M TA impression
in the test area and PENTHOUSE has 70M.

B) Supplements - If suitable magazines are not available,
supplement insertions should be the next alternative.
The magazine's TA impressions can be replaced by Sunday
supplement TA impressions on a one-for-one basis. Usually,
a single supplement insertion will replace insertions in
a group of magazines.

Example: One page 4-color in the Des Moines REGISTER
TRIBUNE (a SUNDAY METRO supplement) can
replace a page 4-color insertion in OUI,
ARGOSY, and SAGA if the total TA impressions
of the three magazines equals that of the
TA impressions of one insertion in the Sunday
supplements (assuming .37 male 18-34 readers
per Sunday supplement copy).

C) Newspapers - Newspapers are the least desirable alternative
for replacing magazine insertions. Unlike replacement via
other magazines or supplements, newspapers cannot replace
national plan magazines on a one-to-one impression basis.

MRD studies indicate that a magazine page 4-color recalls
approximately 50% higher than a newspaper page 4-color.
Further, a )500-line 2-color newspaper unit scores comparably
to the full-page newspaper unit yet costs significantly less.
Thus, a 1500-line 2-color ad is the preferred space unit

0609 OZ00s