O

{
Ie

for replacing a magazine page 4~color; the ROP page 4-color
should be scheduled only when a brand's creative necessitates
the use of additional coloration. (When determining the TA
impressions for newspapers, consideration should be given

to the number of TA readers per newspaper copy. For example,
we assume .34 males 18~34 readers per newspaper copy.)

2) Supplements

A)

B)

Other Supplements - We do not recognize a difference between
the Sunday supplement networks or Independents~~PARADE
supplements can replace FAMILY WEEKLY supplements, etc.

Newspapers ~- Newspapers can serve as replacement for Sunday
supplements, assuming 1.5 newspaper (1500-line 2-color or
page 4-color) TA impressions are the equivalent of one
supplement TA impression.

Example: Three 1500-line 2-color ads in the daily M&E
combination of the Augusta CHRONICLE HERALD
can replace two page 4-color in this paper's
PARADE Sunday supplement. The circulation of
both editions is equal.

Replacement of Spread Insertions - The above @Giscussion assumes the

ad to be replaced is a pace 4-color.

when the national plan would schedule spreads and it is not possible
to schedule the spread in the test area.

These are the suggested means for translating magazine and supplement

spreads, in order of preference:

1) Magazines

A)

B)

C)

D)

If possible, schedule the spread via regional/metro edition,
MNI, or split run--the latter being possible only if a
corporate spread inventory exists.

Replace the TA impressions of the magazine spreads which
cannot be translated in other magazines with supplement
spreads on a one-to-one basis of TA impressions.

If magazine spreads cannot be scheduled in either magazines
or supplements, schedule a single page 4=-color in place of
the spread. According to MRD studies, there is approximately
a 108 difference in recall scores between a magazine spread
and a magazine or supplement page 4-color. Although there
‘will be some loss in impact, the difference in recall is not
significant cnough to warrant additional weight.

If newspapers are the only means available for replacing
Magazine spreads, schedule 1500-line 2-color or ROP page
4-color ad, assuming one TA magazine spread impression is

the equivalent of two TA newspaper impressions.

There will be instances, however,

4609 OZ00¢ «