ra

RJR MEDIA
Position Paper No. 8 Subject: Translating National Media

Programs of Cigarette Products
Into Test Market Situations. .

‘

Background - The Corporation is presently committed to test marketing
several new cigarette brands. Given the uniqueness of each brand's
marketing strategy, it would not be feasible to formulate a media
translation procedure encompassing all possible test situations. However,
a general course of action is evident which may be applied to most test
market translations.

In scope, the following will set down a general media policy for test
market concepts, market selection, and the mechanics of media:

Discussion ~ Test Market Concepts

- There are two test market concepts which MRD may use in reading the |

S

results of a market test--"National Simulation" or "Division Simulation."
The following is a discussion of these two concepts and the implications
which they have for developing a media translation:

National Simulation ("Little U.S." Translation) - In this situation,
each test division serves as a model for the total U.S. marketing

area, Ideally, there are three test divisions, each with a population
of 500M+. In addition, the configuration of each division in

ta

of metro, rural, and ethnic population, sales distribution, and media
penetration should closely resemble that of the national market as

a whole. Obviously, it is doubtful that any test*division will
exactly conform to both the U.S. population profile and the coverage
provided by a national media plan; usually, the selected division
represents the best compromise under the circumstances.

In addition to MRD's criteria for selecting a division for test
(BDI, category development, etc.), these media and demographic
factors should ‘be considered:

1) Metro population: % division vs. % total U.S.
2) Rural population (C & D counties): % division vs. % total U.S.

3) Ethnic population (Black and/or Spanish): 8% division vs.
% total U.S.

4) National magazine penetration in the division vs. total \
U.S. average. NOTE: The county-by-county circulation of
the magazines should be determined to acknowledge geographic
circulation variances.

L809 0200S