8 5) Sunday supplement and newspaper coverage of the division as
compared to total U.S. coverage provided by the national
media plan's supplement and newspaper schedule.

6) Adequate Out-of-Home facilities i£ scheduled in national
media plan.

The final determination of a division's suitability for testing is
made by MRD after considering the degree to which the characteristics
of a division deviate from the ideal, given the execution of the
national plan.

Division Simulation ("As It Falls" Translation) - In this situation,
the test divisions, taken together, serve as a model for the total

u.S. marketing area. Applying this concept to testing, the test
-@ivision receives the same media schedule that it would during the
execution of the national media plan. Ideally, three divisions are
utilized in this test--one each of a high, average, and low sales
potential area--again, each with a population of 500M+. Theoretically,
the penetration of media scheduled in these divisions should be in

the aggregate, similar to that of the national plan's coverage of the
U.S. When there is a significant difference in coverage (e.g., 40%

or 90% supplement coverage of division households vs. 68% supplement
coverage of U.S. households), another test division should be requested.

CY) If an alternate division is not available, the division's media
schedule will be adjusted following MRD's evaluation of the problem
area. .

Obviously, the media considerations when evaluating a potential test
Givision for Division Simulation are more flexible than those of
National Simulation since the division should receive the same

media schedule as dictated by the national plan.

Recap - The media considerations for selecting divisions in cither test
situation are meant to be very general to cover a variety of marketing/
media strategies (particularly those in Division Simulation, where
potential business factors, category development, etc., carry
significantly more weight than in National Simulation). Obviously,
there are other media criteria to be considered which are generic to
the type of plan being tested (i.e., the desire for spectacolor/hi-fi,
offset newspapers, rotary/permanent paint facilities, etc.). The
specific needs for the variety of plans currently planned for test
markets are too numerous to detail here, and personal judgment will
undoubtedly be necessary.

Media Translation Methodology ~ The translation of a desired print
media schedule is complex; and, further, it is unlikely that a “perfect"
translation is possible. This is the result of several factors:

 

-- Due to mechanical restrictions, some magazines must limit
the number of split runs per issuc. The Corporation's
domands for numerous copy changes (as well as the needs
of other companies involved in testing) have strained the
capability of these magazines to the point where further

requests may be denied (e.g.r PLAYBOY, TV GUIDE).

g309 0c00S ©

re
ummm i tee ee _ -
. ee ge igh nee ng e SNE a OD ea oe. . ee - ce 2? 08 ee ore