wee an nee rent,

v ee en r

“CONFIDENTIAL Lo

 

pone snr garretts tems ae

The dominant personality at the meeting was Richard Peto of
Oxford, England. Several scientists acknowledged his role as an
“enfant terrible," but many sought him out to discuss their work
and paid deference to his comments. And there many of these, some—
times given in disparaging language. His paper on the multistage
process of carcinogenesis emphasized the causal role of smoking.

There was no press coverage of the meeting except for the last
day and a half, when a freelance writer based in France appeared
on assignment for several paramedical publications in Europe-USA and
for Physicians Radio Network in New York. Actually, there was
little in the program that could be of use to clinicians.

The highlights:

1. "Does daily intake of green-yellow vegetables lower down (sic)
the risk of cancer in man? An example of application of epidemio-
logical methods to identify individuals at lower risk" -—~ Hirayama.
Here are some of the results Hirayama reported from his prospective
study of 265,118 adults aged 40 years or more. Ninety-five percent
of the census population in 29 health center districts in Japan
were interviewed starting in October 1965. The risk factors studied
included smoking, drinking, diet, occupation, marital status, age
of first marriage, number of children, etc. ,

During the 13 years of follow-up there more than 10,000 cancer
deaths in both sexes. The two largest cancer death groups were
stomach cancer, with 7,500 males and 1,300 females, and lung can-
cer, with 940 deaths in males and 304 in females.

By far, the most important information was obtained from study—
ing the effects of cigarette smoking. For cancer of all sites, the
dose relationship from the number of cigarettes smoked for men and
women was very clear. Even excluding lung cancer, there was still
a very significant relationship. There was a slight relationship
for cancer of the cervix, breast and ovaries, and no relationship
at all with kidney and prostate cancer. Cigarettes were the most
important risk factor for cancer of the lungs and larynx.

Some nonsmoking men married to women who were heavy smokers
were found to have lung cancer. Hirayama did not elaborate on this.

Hirayama said he was surprised to find that smoking was at least
as important as diet in stomach cancer. "Now I understand why in
any country, almost without exception, stomach cancer is higher in
males than females."* To intervene against cancer for all sites, "I
have no hesitation to say that cigarette smoking is the number one
choice," he said.

He then reported on his assigned topic ~— the intake of green-

yellow vegetables and the risk of cancer. There were two surveys
in this area, the second one taken five years after the first.

pasgor0

— TITX 0014974