. a

” CONFIDEN: :

Un.

8. "Promotion of in vitro morphological transformation of ham-
ster embryo cells" -- E. Rivedal, Oslo. To study the effect of
different tumor promoters, hamster embryo cells were sequentially
exposed. When the cells were exposed to benzo(a)pyrene (BP) and
then the tumor promoter TPA, a 10-fold enhancement of the trans—
formation frequency was observed compared to the times the compounds
were tested separately. When TPA was given prior to BP, no en-
hancement was seen. Other promoters and nonpromoting analogs were
Similarly enhanced by BP.

In other experiments, it was found that cigarette smoke extract
and some metal ions, such as nickel sulfate, showed a synergistic
effect in transforming the embryonic cells.

During Q and A, Peto commented that smoking kills many persons
because it acts as both an initiator and a promoter. Rivedal answered
that the smoke condensate is much more a promoter.

XK C.C. Harris, Bethesda, reminded Peto that cigarette smoke ex-

‘tract was not cigarette smoke.

9. "Immunological factors in human carcinogenesis" Gon. Ada,
Canberra, Australia. A surveillance system involved in the control
of tumors seems to be indicated by the evidence that some tumors
regress and some are held in check.

When this surveillance system is compromised by the use of im=—
munosuppressive drugs or.in immmodeficient patients, there is an
elevated incidence of certain tumors.

But the question of whether there is a distinctly unique tumor
antigen is still a little uncertain, else why would many malig-
nant cells escape? Perhaps some malignant cells that express an-
tigen might not act as efficient stimulator cells. Or perhaps
some malignant cells either do not possess a tumor specific an=-
tigen, or if they do, these antigens are no longer expressed after
metastasis. ,

Ada mentioned a possibly important role for macrophages -—— the
secretion of a tumor necrosis factor that slows down the tumor
growth rate.

10. "Endocrine factors in human carcinogenesis!!! _X, Armstrong,
Nedlands, Australia. If there is ome hormone that seems to be bad
for people, it's estrogen, Armstrong said. This hormone is possibly
involved in 13 of 15 cancer sites.

What is probably the predominant mechanism for endocrine mod-
ulation in carcinoma is the promotion of the development of clin-
ical cancer from initiated cells. Estrogen-induced endometrial
cancer is the best example of this. From the first use of this
hormone, relative risk rises to 5.4 within three or four years;
when estrogen is stopped, there is a decline in relative risk

T1ice--
re ” -TITX 0014981