perenne rn pacer nent ni

' “CONFIDENTIAL ; _

ooo tte nernee tee een cm eaten a

beginning one to two years after cessation. Armstrong said that
this is essentially the same promotional effect described by Peto
for smoking, that is, as soon as smoking stops, the rate for lung
cancer stops going up and flattens out.

Obesity increases the production of estrogens and decreases
the level of plasma sex hormones. AS a result, the increased estro-
gen activity tends to increase breast, gall bladder and endometrial
cancer.

Vegetarian women showed significantly lower urinary estrogens
than controls. (Prolactin also was lower.) This possibly means re-
duced estrogen production. It is well kmown that vegetarians have
a lower rate of endometrial and breast cancer.

Physical activity and, very importantly, genetic constitution
as well as other factors, probably are involved. Stress may be re-
lated to cancer in some way, operating through the adrenal hor-
mones by suppressing immunological function. But it is not really
known if this function has an effect on cancer.

Though endogenous hormones are possibly involved with many
cancer sites, there is really sufficient evidence for only two:
breast and endometrium.

11. "Nutritional aspects of carcinogenicity" -- Anthonv B.
Miller, Toronto. He reviewed a great deal of data on breast and
colon cancer that were developed from studies im many countries.
These data concentrated on the correlation between environmental
variables, mostly nutritional, and cancer incidence and mortality.
Host factors (indirect indicators of nutrition) such as height,
weight, and age of menarche, also were discussed.

As the slide presentation progressed, differences or conflicts
in the data became evident. In The Netherlands the risk of breast
cancer was related to being tall and heavy. Yet Miller and others
have been umable to demonstrate the effects of these factors.

A study using international data found a correlation in the
incidence and mortality for breast cancer with animal protein,
total fat, height, and weight -- and a negative correlation with
age at menarche, although this is affected by nutrition.

In Canada, the highest risk for breast cancer in both pre-
and post-menopausal women was total fat intake. Miller admitted
that several scientists doubted that total fat was causal, but if
it were, then about 27% of breast cancers might be attributed to it.

In the U.S.e, the strongest correlation for breast cancer mor-

w
tality was with milk, except among Seventh Day Adventists. Eggs ow
had a reverse correlation. S
e7
~™
-

TITX 0014982