pen

“CONFIDENTIAL | .

nygepene

figure now is about 33%, and alcohol causes about 3%. Dietary fac-
tors would seem to be at about 35%, yet they do not know which fac-
tors are important. So much evidence seems to suggest the impor~
tance of diet in cancer. Tobacco is responsible for the only large
and reliably kmown percentage; everything else is either small or
uncertain.

"If you really want to kill yourself, you've got to start smok-
ing early," Peto said, showing a slide. What one smokes at age 20
is a very good determinant of one's lung cancer risk later in life.

international death rates of breast cancer have an "absolute-
ly extraordinary correlation" with dietary fat intake, Peto said.
It seems "ludicrous." It shows that large differences between coun-
tries are principally due to some kind of extrinsic factors and
these differences still provide the only strong evidence that can-
cer is an avoidable disease.

"Junk" was his word for case control studies of retinol and
beta carotene. Most researchers confuse the two though they are
different molecules. Retinol seems to have anticancer properties,
but vitamin A pills do not affect blood retinal levels much; the
liver does. Carotene gets to the tissues trying to prevent cancer,
retinol doesn't.

Peto was excited about two prospective studies on the retinol
content of stored blood from apparently healthy people. Those who
developed cancer had their blood analyzed. A two-fold relative
risk for cancer was found between those with the highest amount
of blood retinol and those with the lowest. If everyone's retinol
level was raised to the highest level in the study, there would be
a one-third reduction in cancer rates, Peto said. As yet, nobody

‘kmows how to produce this.

Carotene seems to have an apparent protective effect without
being toxic, though studies have not yielded real proof, Peto con-
cluded.

4. "Is aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) induction 'system—
atically' regulated in man?" ~*~ QO. Pelkonen, Oulu, Finland. The
role of AHH in human susceptibility to cancer remains controversial.
Inconclusive findings have been reported by studies that used per-
ipheral blood lymphocytes or monocytes for AHH measurements.

Because lymphocytes are not the primary target for carcinogenic
activity by polycyclic hydrocarbons, Pelokonen sought to answer
the question: Does AHH inducibility in lymphocytes correlate with
AHH activity and/or inducibility in other tissues of the same in-
dividual? Animal experiments have suggested that AHH induction is
"systematicaliy" regulated, he said.

The placenta, cord blood and maternal lymphocytes, all of gen~-
etically common origin, were used to study AHH inducibility in

Tlar,.

~Q
ue _. TITX 0014977