(CONFIDENTIAL NTIAL . /

mee ene

vitro and in the tissues of the same individual. Pelkonen was able

to demonstrate a correlation between AHH activity, induced by
maternal smoking, and cord blood lymphocytes. The correlation be-
tween maternal lymphocyte AHH inducibility and placental AHH ac-
tivity was poor.

In hospital patients, correlations among lymphocyte AHH in-
duction, hepatic mono-oxygenase activity and antipyrene elimina-
tion were poor. Smoking had a definite effect on lymphocyte AHH
activity, but no detectable effect on hepatic AHH activity.

These findings seem to suggest that AHH induction in humans is
systematically regulated, Pelkonen concluded, but that this can be
demonstrated only in special situations and/or in highly selected
populations.

During discussion, Pelkonen said that when he studied AHH in-
duction in lymphocytes from cancer patients and controls, he found
a "nice" difference. When a history of smoking was included, it
was found that AHH induction in the lymphocytes of smokers was as
high as in lymphocytes from cancer patients. "That was a surprise,"
he said.

5. "Complex, dynamically interacting host factors in human car-
cinogenesis" = lliot S. Vesell, Hershey, Pa. (a former CTR grantee).
There are many problems in the search for simple correlations be-
tween drug metabolizing enzymes (DME) and host factors in human car-
cinogenesis.

One study on DME used antipyrene (AP) metabolism in 20 sets
of adult, normal twins. Three main metabolites of AP were measured
after a single dose of AP (each AP- metabolite is under separate
genetic control). Monozygotic twins showed a smaller variability
for metabolite formation than did dizygotic twins. (This is believed
to be the first time that three different drug metabolites have
been shown, in man, to be probably under the control of at least
three different genes.)

Dietary factors can alter AP production in metabolism. Chang-
ing the ratio of protein to carbohydrates affected the rate of
elimination of AP in the same individual. Even subtle effects,
such as the hours between meals, can be effective.

Various pathologic effects can also create changes in the dis-~
tribution of drug metabolizing capacity. Livers with tumors from
humans and rats were examined. Drug metabolizing was found to be
reduced within the tumor and higher than normal adjacent to the
tumor, as compared to controls.

Vesell concluded that many changing factors in the internal
and external environments can impinge on how a persons handles
drugs.

OD
oh
‘

_ TITX 0014978