11.

x

pene
“CONFIDENTIAL )
i
i CUNFIDENTIAL |
As for fiber, a number of studies suggest its protective ef- /
fect in colorectal cancer. Though a study in England found no asso= ~
ciation with with the intake of dietary fiber (or fat!), Miller
continued, it did find that a specific fraction of the fiber was

protective. Miller thinks that perhaps scientists should measure
parts of the fibex rather than the whole.

He described a meeting of epidemiologist to try to make sense
of the conflicting data. He believes that when methodology of the
studies is refined the data will not be so contradictory.

During Q and A, Ernst Wynder of New York said thatat his American
Health Foundation significant dietary histories are not taken be-
cause the real need is to know what was eaten 20 years ago, not
last week.

Asked by Wynder to prescribe a good diet, Miller replied that
we should reduce fat as calories by about 30%. For the remaining
fat intake, balance it with a mixture of polyunsaturated, mono-
saturated and saturated fats. Eat less meat, more vegetables and
maintain an ideal weight.

12. "Modifying factors and promoters in carcinogenesis" -—
y Henry C. Pitot, Madison, Wis. This was a discussion of the three
‘types of chemicals affecting both humans and animals -—— incomplete
carcinogens, complete carcinogens and promoting agents.

Some chemicals produce preneoplastic lesions (foci), but not
carcinoma. These are initiating agents or incomplete carcinogens.
If tissue is then promoted with an agent like phenobarbital,
large numbers of foci appear and, subsequently, carcinoma develops.

An example of a complete carcinogen is diethylnitrosamine. A
rat. given a high dose of this agent develops foci, then carci-~
noma. However, low doses of this same chemical act only as an
initiating agent. ‘

There are also weak, complete carcinogens whase effects are
shown only with repeated doses.

In an experiment with rats it was found that altering the for-
mat of the given doses rather than the dose itself very signif-
icantly decreased the number of foci produced. From this, one can
say that promoting agents are quite distinctly different from either
complete or incomplete carcinogens in two characteristics -— that
is, a threshold level of maximal effect and reversibility of effect.

Environmental factors, particularly promoting agents, are quite
likely very important in the genesis of human neoplasia, Pitot
said. If the foci are never promoted, they will not change during
a life span.

Pitot showed a list of promoting agents that include dietary
fat, cigarette smoke, asbestos, and halogenated hydrocarbons. He

T118019 |
a : _ | TITX 0014983