Wy yd Gk, ELNST
! :

 

DY August 12, 1981
MEMORANDUM
TO: W. T. Hoyt ih aos, «CC: WOH
ENTIA scs
FROM: Hilda Zahn Poms _ RCH
moe 2 RFG

SSOU- . — -:
SUBJECT: X Reso, on Host Factors in Human Carcinogenesis
Cape Sounion, Greece, June 8-11, 1981

N.B. This memo was held up because we were awaiting
copies of pictures taken by someone of Hirayama's
slides. These prints finally arrived, but not all
are in sharp focus. They are reproduced at the end
of this memo for whatever information you can de-
rive from them. The prints are a bit clearer and
are being sent to Marvin Kastenbaum for his pro-
fessional perusal.

Assov

The symposium, organized by the International Agency for Re~
search on Cancer in Lyon, France, brought together some 100 sci-
éemtists from 19 countries to discuss the difficult question of
determining the reasons for individual differences in suscepti-
bility to cancer. The objective is to identify those at higher
risk.

Cigarette smoking was mentioned quite frequently, and it was
apparent that virtually each scientist present considered smoking
to be the single greatest menace to health.

xX Takeshi Hirayama of Tokyo, though asked to speak on the sub-
ject of reducing cancer risk by a diet containing daily doses of
green-yellow vegetables, spent the first part of his slide pre-
sentation on the hazards of cigarette smoking. His talk was
garbled and his "slide show" was too rapid, but he was clear
enough on two items: (1) some nonsmoking males get lung cancer
when their wives are heavy smokers, and (2) smoking is at least
as important as diet in the development of stomach cancer. (This
information was reported by us in a special memo during the sym-
posiun. )

There was no comment at all from the audience on his cigarette
data, but a lively debate took place over his vegetable results.

Another recent recruit to the antismoking ranks, D. Tricho-
poulos of Athens (comauthor of a passive smoking report a few
months ago), drew divided opinion with a paper that claimed an
association between smoking and liver cancer.

The presentations were lengthy and included reviews of the lit-
erature, methodology, the current state of the art, and some in-
itial advances that, everyone hoped, will contribute to solving
the dilemma of cancer.

hss
Y¥ e ard P@LiC RELATIONS COUNSEL G09
"Ott La
ahn : yats
and Associates Inc.
(P. O, BOX 223) 13 LINCOLN ROAO «+ GREAT NECK, N.Y, 11021 « (212) 995-7445

_ TITX 0014973