“Con ENTIAL AL”:

During Q and A, Vesell noted that there is a fundamental error
in concluding that individuals who migrate are representative of
the of the country from which they come. The fact of migration in-
dicates they are different. "I look at cigarette smoking in the
same light," Vesell said. "Smoking is an act that changes drug met-
abolism capacity but it's an act that reflects very subtle genetic,
environmental, behavioral, and socioeconomic conditions." We have
to show that migrants had the same drug metabolizing capacity as
others in their environment and that they changed this value when
they migrated. Published studies have not done that.

Tannenbaum said that in many cases, drug metabolism may not
be a limiting step in carcinogenesis. What we haven't sorted out
is in what kind of cancer are genetics an important determining
factor, in what kind is environment involved, and in what kind is
a host factor like drug metabolism involved. Vesell agreed entirely.

6. "Carcinogenesis as a multistage process -—— experimental evi-
dence"! —KI.B. Weinstein, New York. Weinstein defined carcinogen—
esis in experimental animals as a multistage process resulting
from a complex interaction between multiple factors. In this con=-
text, the concept of initiators and promoters in carcinogenesis
was described and differentiated.

Weinstein gave this example: Phorbol esters are tumor promoters
en mouse skin. These compounds are not genotoxic or mutagenic in
bacterial systems or in animal cells. What we know about promoters
is not relevant to initiators. The target for initiators may be
DNA, but it does not appear to be the target for promoters. The
cell membrane is the target for at least the phorbol ester tumor
promoters. These bind to specific, high affinity receptors on the
membrane, leading to alterations in membrane structure and func=
tion. (Some scientists at the meeting commented privately that what
Weinstein said seemed to constitute an exciting advance.)

Interestingly, a protein has been found in normal sera that
inhibits the binding of phorbol ester to receptors on the cell mem—
brane, Weinstein continued. He wondered if this protein could pro-
tect the host from external factors that might utilize the receptors.

A new class of tumor promoters has been found in naturally oc-
curring compounds such as seaweed from Hawaii, he said. These
agents compete with the phorbol esters by mimicking their binding
action.

The lipid composition of cells is restructured after exposure
to phorbol esters. The effects of dietary lipids as a cofactor in
carcinogenesis in experimental animals and in humans might relate
to changes in the lipid composition of the cell membrane.

Benzo(a)pyrene is a complete carcinogen, Weinstein said. It
serves as both an initiator and promoter by damaging the DNA and

TITX 0014979