a tn amen eRaNeN Ro An ap cet re AR a A nn cata aon te aaa mr RG

enema nono

qreria
aay | 12.

  

CONFI

commented that whether all were in fact clearly effective in humans
"remains to be seen."

In response to a question, Pitot said that some scientists be-
lieve asbestos is a promoting agent. "Evidence for this is strictly
the fact that this material has to remain in the organism for the
life of the organism in order to produce its effect," he said. "I
don't know of any example where asbestos can be shown to have a
direct effect on the genetic apparatus."

13., "Genetic study of host factors on gastrocarcinogenesis in
rats'' —-K. Morino, Tokyo. This study was designed to test for the
degree of genetic involvement in the development of gastric cancer,
a major disease in Japan.

Rats that are sensitive (ACI strain) and rats resistant (Buffalo
strain) to gastrocarcinogenesis by MNNG (a potent chemical), and
their Fy hybrids of both sexes, were used.

After getting MNNG in drinking water for eight months, the rats

‘were sacrificed and histologically examined. The results showed
that in the ACI rats, 86% of the males and 53% of the females de-
veloped gastric cancer. In the Buffalo strain rats, 19% of the
males and none of the females developed the disease. The F, hybrids
were not significantly different from the Buffalo rats. In addition,
no significant differences in gastric cancer were found between

the males and females of any group.

Morino said the results suggest that resistance to gastrocar~
cinogenesis by MNNG is an autosomal dominant trait.

14. "Population studies of polymorphism in drug metabolism
and its relevance to carcinogenesis" -~ J.R. Idl&\ London. The met-—
abolic oxidation of chemical substances by an individual seems to
provide a clue to determine cancer risk, Idle said.

He compared the white population of England with the black pop-
ulation of Nigeria and found them pretty much the same for the dis-
tribution of metabolic ratios and the occurrence of the extensive
metabolizer (EM), which is a dominant trait, and the poor meta~
bolizer (PM), which is a recessive trait. EM individuals con-
stitute about 90% and PMs about 10% of the populations.

He found a lower incidence of the PM occurred in lung cancer
patients who were smokers and in Nigerian hepatoma patients, com-—

pared to controls. eS
fu

The preliminary data suggest that PMs are less able to activate a
carcinogens and therefore have a lower rate of the diseases asso- o

ciated with smoking and aflatoxin ingestion, Idle said. Rat studies @
aiso reflected these results. a

ok

TITX 0014984