arene ama

(CONFIDENTIAL h

EE see ier

8.

 

altering the cell membrane analgous to the action of phorbol ester.
This also is true of a whole series of polycyclic aromatic hydro-
carbons.

Weinstein said he believes that the most important host factors
for chemical carcinogens are the host genes. Viruses can bring in
new genetic information. The multistage nature of carcinogenesis
might be, in part, the remodeling or rearrangement of the DNA and
its expression.

7. "Pharmacogenetics and human cancer" -X Daniel W. Nebert,
Bethesda, Md. Under the theory that human susceptibility to can-
cer may be influenced by a genetic predisposition for metabolism
of environmental agents, Nebert has been working for the past few
years on the Ah locus. This is comprised of regulatory, struc-
tural and probably temporal genes. The major regulatory gene prod-
uct "sees" a number of chemical carcinogens and other halogenated
hydrocarbons. The message is received in the nucleus and new forms
ef proteins, such as P450, are incorporated into the membrane.

The function of these news forms of P4&450 is to metabolize the var-
ious inducing and noninducing compounds. During the process of
metabolism, many reactive ingredients are detoxified and excreted
as innocuous products. The major regulatory gene product is a
cystolic receptor.

Ah nonresponsive mice do not have detectable amounts of the
receptor and, therefore, P450 is poorly induced following treat-—
ment with a chemical like benzo(a)pyrene. However, tissues in
distant sites of the body may develop a malignancy like leukemia
more readily in these mice because more of the carcinogen reaches
that tissue due to decreased P450 induction and decreased detox-
ification.

Ah responsive animals are at increased risk of cancer at the
site of entry because they are the ones with receptors. The in-
creased levels of P450 generate the toxic metabolites locally,
leading to cancer or inflammation.

There is sufficient evidence that heritable variations of the
Ah locus occur in man. There seems to be a correlation between
low AHH phenotypes and Ah nonresponsive individuals. Both have an
increased incidence of acute leukemia. The high AHH phenotype
compares with the Ah responsive individual.

In the case of cigarette smokers, Nebert commented,they more
often develop bronchogenic, laryngeal and oral cancer because of
direct contact with the tissues by the smoke.

To sum up: Ah responsive individuals develop cancer at the
site of exposure; Ah nonresponsive individuals develop. cancer at ©
distant sites. o”

oO

?
.

Y

ad

TITX 0014980