\
4

( CONFIDENTIAL | :

‘ nen
Smarr ree teres

In Africa, about one-third of the cancer patients are HBV neg-
ative. Of these, there are a huge number of liver cancers, about
20-fold more than in Europe or the USA, Trichopolous said.

During Q and A, Peto said that in the U.S. only 0.7% of the can~
cer patients have liver cancer, which is not a major cancer. He
also commented that the association of liver cancer with smoking
that Trichopoulos found was about as strong as that between mor
tality from liver cirrhosis and smoking. "It's almost exactly the
same as that" he observed in British doctors. Liver cirrhosis as
a cause of death was about six times as prevalent among doctors
who smoked more than 25 cigarettes daily, he continued. It is pos-
sible, he said, that the association Trichopoulos reported be-
tween smoking and liver cancer was an artifact. Trichopoulos ack-
nowledged that people will admit to smoking but not to drinking.

‘i John Higginson, Lyon, France, was skeptical of Trichopoulos's
conclusions. There is an enormous variation in liver cancer rates

in Africa, he said, and any kind of hypothesis must "explain"
these differences.

'3. "Carcinogenesis as a multistage process -——- evidence from hu-
man studies" -— Peto. This lengthy presentation, which reviewed
data on cancer along with Peto's colorful evaluation of them, leaned
very heavily on cigarette smoking as a causal factor. If he is sure
of nothing else, he is sure of that. ,

The international data correlating lumg cancer and smoking are
reported to be "lousy," Peto said, but that is not true. Poor cor-
relations are obtained because smoking in 1970, for example, is
compared with lung cancer in 1970. That's correlating the lung can-
cer rates of the grandparents with the smoking habits of the grand—-
children, he said. One must correlate one generation with itself,
otherwise it's not sensible.

In the U.S. there was an enormous increase in smoking during
World War II. Among those now 60 years old we should see a very
rapid increase in lung cancer. The peak ought to be in the genera-_
tion born between 1925-1930. Now that fewer people have been smok-—
ing, there is a decrease in lung cancer mortality among Americans
under age 50.

In England and Wales the highest figures for smoking among
young men occurred about 1920. After that the numbers became flat.
When we get decreasing tar yields, we get quite large decreases
in lumg cancer. What this shows is that smoking acts both on an
early and late stage of the carcinogenic process. That is why cig-
arette smoking is such a "killer."

Peto said he and Richard Doll were asked recently to review
the causes of cancer in the U.S. (This was published in the June
1981 "Journal of the National.Cancer Institute.") They decided that
smoking causes about 30% of all cancers (that was in 1978). The

Ke

qe
TITX 0014976