(CONFID DENTIAL

In the first survey, he found that in each Satecory. of smokers
there was somewhat of a reduction of risk for lumg cancer with daily
intake of green-yellow vegetables. Stomach cancer risk was also re-
duced, but not strikingly. .

The second study included people who had increased the frequency
of vegetable intake. These individuals showed an in-between mortal-
ity rate compared to daily eaters and those who remained non-daily
eaters of the vegetables.

The problems he encountered were not simple, Hirayama said.
They were more complicated than he had expected.

During Q and A, Steve Tannenbaum‘of Cambridge, Mass., asked
about salt and vitamin C intake. Hirayama replied that eating.
pickles, which are*heavy with salt, was included in the research.

Peto was dejected. He said he was very discouraged by the data.
"The overall effects are so close to zero that they suggest that
carotene is not relevant to cancer prevention," he said. (He is en-
gaged in an intervention trial using beta carotene.) Hirayama re-
sponded that he also was disappointed, but since stomach and lung
cancer are two major cancers in Japan, the tendency to slow them
down, if only by 10%, makes the information valuable.

K ¢.5. Muir, Lyon, France, was encouraged by Hirayama's results.
Vegetable intake seems to offer more protection against lung can-
cer when smoking exposure is low, he said. "The more you smoke,
the more the vegetable effect is swamped."

Hirayama said that occupation does not seem to contribute very
much to the elevation of lung or larynx cancer incidence in Japan.
At most, only 10% of factory workers had these cancers, he said.

2. "Does hepatitis B virus (HBV) cause hepatocellular carci-
noma?" -=— Trichopoulos. It appears that HBV is second only to cig-
arette smoking as the most important known human carcinogen, Tri-
chopoulos said. The association between HBV and hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC) is more impressive than that between smoking and
lung cancer.

But then came this: "The causal nature of the association be-
tween HBV and HCC cannot be seriously disputed" but the pathogen-
esis of HBV~related HCC is obscure.

He said both he and Hirayama have found an excess incidence of
liver cancer in smokers. In Europe and the U.S. there are few HBV
megative liver cancer cases, he said, but he still claimed there
was a strong association between HBV negative and smoking. Also,
these liver cancer cases have a higher socioeconomic status than
do patients with HBV positive.

T4119044

TITX 0014975