ARNON PERRY*

HK 2205125

)

This article focuses on two questions: To whot extent can the attitude toward and
the consumption of aleehol, cigarettes, ond coffee be explained by o genetic
factor? and To what extent can heredity be the link between two personality traits,
anxiety ond extroversion-introversion, ond the attitude foward the consumption of

these three products?

Heredity, Personality Traits, Product Attitude, and
Product Consumption—An Exploratory Study

‘INTRODUCTION

This article focuses on the relationships between per-
sonality traits, product attitude. and product consump-
tion. It has been assumed in most previous studies in
this area (1, 2, 6, 7, 16. 17, 19, 25, 26, 27, 29) that
some form of reciprocal relationship exists betmeen
product attitude or consumption and specific personality
traits. There is evidence [4, 8. 11. £2, 14] which suggests
that personality in itself-is affected by heredity. In this
article we shall examine the extent to which heredity can
explain the variance in specific personality traits, prod-
uct attitude, and product consumption, individually as
well as their interrelationships. :

The selection of products and personality traits for
this study was based on results from previous studies.
For personality traits, extraversion-introversion (ET) and
anxiety (A) were sclected using scales devised by Ey.
senck [10] and Bendig [3} respectively. Eysenck und
Prell {13}, EysencK 19}, and Shiclds [20] found these
traits to have a significant genetic componcnt. For prod-
uct attitude und consumption, cigurcttes, coffee, und al-
coho! were selected for two reasons. First. consumers of
the products tend to develop hubitual patterns of con-
sumption, making it difficult for them ty stop. Second,
Partanen, Bruun, and Markkanen (18] in a study of the
inheritance of alcoholic drinking, coffee_drinking, and
cigurette_ smoking behavior found that, of the alcoholic
drinking variables, densiry (a combined factor of fre-

       

 

® Arnon Perry is a lecturer at The Leon Recanati Graduate
School of Business Administration, Tel-Aviv University. He is
gtateful for the constructive comments, counsel, and assistance
in this research of Professors Edwatd Cundiff, S. Thomas Fried-
man, and Mack Alpert of The University of Texas at Austin.

 

 

‘quency and regularity) and amount showed a significant
heritability. Both coffee drinking and cigarette smoking

showed _a significant heritability on the @meunt con-
sumed. Although the relationship, if any, between ha-

bitual consumption and heredity has not been estab-.
lished, it is not unreasonable to hypothesize a relationship
between the two. :
Some evidence was introduced by Smart [21], who
found acurvilinear relationship between anxiety and the
frequency of drinking among college students, using
Taylor's Manifest Anxiety Scale. Eysenck [12] found
“extraversion to be related to cigarette smoking, and
Smith (22, 23]. in two separate studies using college stu-
dents and preudult subjects and a different scale from
the one developed by Eysenck, has found that smokers
scored significantly higher on measures of extraversion.

METHOD

The research design employed here calls for a sample
of MZ! and DZ twins. The underlying principle of the
twin method is that MZ twins have identical genotypes,
and therefore any observed dissimilarity within pairs
must be related to environmental factors. DZ, same sex
twins, while on the average differing in SO of their
genes, provide a measure of environmental control not
otherwise possible by sharing such factors as birth rank
and mother’s age. Once the within-pairs variances (Viz
and V)) have been calculated, the twin method allows

* Throughout the article the conventional abbreviations MZ
(for nvonozygots-identical) and DZ (for dizygous-fraternal) twins
are used. Identical twins (MZ) were produced from the same
ovunr and therefore are identical in all their genes. Fraternal
twins (D2) wete produced from separate ova and are actually
brothers of sisters that happened to be born at the same time.

76

J

Journal of Marketing Research,
Vol. X (November 1973), 376-9