378

4. Drinking alcohol is certainly enjoyable if you can
afford it.

5. Drinking alcohol is unsafe.

6. Drinking alcohol basically seems to involve a
choice between short-term pleasure and long-
term risk. ,

7. Almost any amount of alcohol is fine.

8. Drinking alcohol is very enjoyable. ;

9. People have no control over the forces that make
them drink alcohol. ;

10. Drinking alcohol ig a very reluxing experience.

HN. Drinkers are different from nondrinkers.

12. There are some merits to drinking weohol that
nondrinkers cannot appreciate.

13. Drinking alcohol is exciting.

I4. Only extremely strong will power can change the
habit of drinking alcohol.

15. Over a period of time the risk involved in drink-
ing alcohol becomes larger and larger. ‘

16. Alcohol is addictive which mukes Stopping almost
impossible.

17. People who do nat want to stop drinking alcohol

‘give the excuse that it is heyond their power.

18. Most people who are in the habit of drinking al-
coho! cannot get rid of it.

19. The potential danger in drinking alcohol is not
worth the pleasure.

20. If you know how to handle yourself, there is no
risk in drinking alcohol:

The alphs cocficient of intemal consistency for the

three attitudinal scules. using Veldmian’s program {28}.
Was computed according to the formula:

K
(7) o= X [ede]
- "

where:
KX = number of items in the scale, k
J = item. and
T = tatal.

These coeflicients were -68 for alcohol, .70 for ciga-
rettes, and .65 for coffce.

An item by item absolute difference was coniputed for

cach pair of twins. The sum of these differences repre-
sents the influence of environment for MZ pairs and the
influence of environment und heredity for DZ pairs for
cach variuble or a combination of variables. Subjects
were also asked about the amount they consumed on
the average of cigurettes u day, cups of coffee a day, and
alcoholic beverages a week, ,

In order to test the hypotheses that any two or more

variables are related genctically, i-c., different expres-
sions of the same genetic factor, the scores for these
variables were added for cuch pair of twins. The differ-
ence for every pair was computed, and the same analysis
was repeated as for a single variable. This js consistent
with the ussumption made earlier that the genctic factor

4 Hod th Ho ale, Lee. tmlLy

HK82205127

JOURNAL OF MARKETING RESEARCH, NOVEMBER 1973

Table 2
HERITABILITIES OF COMBINATIONS OF VARIABLES
Consumption Attunde
Betriahles oF
HOF H F
El
Alcohol 20 «1.35 20 14
Cigaretivs 24 132 12 tha
Collee a7 13a A? 120
A
Alcohol 23 t 30 2 1
Cigaretios dos) 1K yy 333
Coffee : 37) O58 EP 1
Alcohol 4+ Cotfee 33 SS jo ora
Alcohol + Cigarettes ST > 2 03s Woods
Cigarettes + Coffey 65 > 2 8t ya
Alcohol + Coffee + Ciga 32 i 4s OY ia
Teltes

Consumpuan ,
Alcoho! 1K 122
Cigarettes 2 38

Coffee : i 133

“e Significari at Une 5 level
© Signiticast at the .O1 level

is additive. In addition. by using (S) there is no inherent
bias in the mathematical model.

RESULTS

The results are presented in the following wo tables.
In Table J. the eight variables are analyzed indinidually.
It is clear that, with respect to the three products, atti-
tude can be ruled out as having a significant genetic
component. However, the amount consumed denien-

istrates a significant genetic component. Neither of the
Iwo personality truits shows a significant genctic com-
ponent.

In Table 2, the sccond set of hypotheses is tested, i.c.,
the consumption and attitude, consumption and person-
ality traits, attitude and personality traits, and the con-
sumption and attitude of any combination of the three
Products are genetically related. It is clear that attitude
toward a product or combination of the three Products
is not significantly related genetically to amy other varia-
Me. However, the amount constmed of cigarettes is
genctically related to anvicty. The amount consumed
of cigarettes: and coffee, and cigarettes and alcohat has
a significant: genetic component as well, The analysis
definitely reveals that the consumption of Cigarettes has
a significant genetic component both by itself and in re-
lation to one personality trait (annicty) und the con-
sumption of tivo other products (coffee and alcohol).

SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS

In this article. an attempt was made to determine the 7
extent to which the attitude toward and the consumption

der we AUG a Wennatim, the atrincded

Ue werbs & erode fb bpher

,