HEREDITY, PERSONALITY TRAITS, PRODUCT ATTITUDE, AND PRODUCT CONSUMPTION

us to isolate the effect of heredity according to the fol-
flowing model:

a) Vow = Veasiennent 2 Vietits
(2) Vinz = Vewsinainsent
QO) Vis - Mw = Vow eeune +

The most frequently used statistic in twin studies is Hol-
2inger’s Heritability CooMicient (44) [15]. This ratio is:

(4) H= (oun, _ view Poi
where:
: _ xd°
(S$) ow =
al

ef is the twin difference, and nis the number of families in
the sample:

The value of H ranges from Oto 1, where | indicates
complete cantrol of the genetit component on the varia-
ble and 0 indicates complete control of the ems ironmental
component, The test of significance is computed accord-
ing to the following F-ratio:

(6) Fe toarfrons
with ty, and my, degrees of freedom.

The assumptions embodied in this model are: (1)
there is no genoty pe-environment interaction, (2) the
genetic And environmental factors are additive. und (3)
the degree of environmental! similarity, of press, within
MZ and DZ pairs is the sume. Although these assumrp-
tions ure standard in most twin studies, there are some
questions about their validity. Since we are dealing with

& Statistical model. us compured to a biological model,

these assumptions are the simplest, without distorting
the relationships on the busis of fuce validity: 5

In every twin study one of the major questions is how
to classify twins into zygosity groups. The most reliable
method known is by blood and scrum examinations. It
is estimated that this method has about 98% uccuracy
{24}. Since obtaining blood samples is not always possi-
ble, investigators have looked for other methods. Cedr-
lof, Friberg, Johnsson, and Kaij [5] report an accuracy
of 98% fn diugnosing MZ and 92% in diagnosing DZ
twins by asking a single question: When growing up,
were you and your twin “as Bike as two peas” or only of
ordinary family likeness?

If both twins answered “as like as two peas,” they were
Classified as MZ. If one of the twins or both answered
“ordinary family likeness” of “do not know,” they were
classified as DZ. The tatter method was used in this study.
In addition the subjects (mostly college students) were
asked whether they were MZ or DZ twins. In the few
cuscs (17) where discordant answers were obtained to
these two questions, subjects or their parents were con-
tacted by telephone to explain the discrepancy. In most
cases (12), the explanation was that the doctor gave the

HK@2205126
377

information to the family. This was accepted as reliable
basis for diagnosis. When no sufficient explanation was
given, the chissification was made on the busis of the
first question.

A total of 84 pairs of twins panicipated in the study,
46 MZ and 38 DZ twins, ranging-in age from 16 to 31
years of age. Of the MZ twins, 25 pairs were female and
21 pitirs male; of the DZ twins, 20 puirs were female and
18 pitts male. The twins were not sepurated by sex due
Jo Timited sample size. In terms of the model used for
analysis this docs nat muke any difference, since every
tuin is compared to his like-sex co-twin. No, DZ twins
of different scx purticipated in the study. Of the 168
partivipants, 145 were undergraduate students ut The
University of Texus at Austin whose names were ob-
tained by matching last names and birth dates for all
enrolled undergraduate students. The rest were obtained
through friends. relatives. colleagues. a story in the
Daily Tesan, and the subjects themselves. Of those con-
tacted only two pairs, one male and one female, refused
to participate. Of the 84 pairs participating. 59 puirs
filled out the questionnaire simultaneously under super-
vision in a speciully assigned room. In the remaining 21
Cases. One member of the pair lived outside of Austin,
and the questionnaire was mailed ta him. Under these
conditions the chances far a response bias caused by in-
teraction among the subjects are highly unlikely

Concerning attitude measurement, the subjects were
asked to indicate their agreement or disagreement ith
20 statements for each product (alcohol, coffee. and
Cigarettes) on a 7-point scule (neutral point omitted).
The statements were:

1. Drinking alcohol is usually harmless.

2. Drinking alcohol is a risky but rather enjoyable
habit.

3. The risk involved in drinking alcohol is minimal
compured to the pleasure.

Table 1 /
HERITABILITIES OF ATTITUDE, CONSUMPTION, AND
PERSONALITY
Test Statistics
Varnhley —————— —_ one = eee ee
“u F
tude i
Alcohol ro I
Cigarettes mm rat MS
Cotter oy Ww
HSU Y
coho 56 2 26°
Cigarettes .67 3:0"
Cottey 49. 1.96
Personality
" 26 - aa
1.533 MWS

A 35

® Segnaticant ut the .Ot level
© Stgvuticunt at the 05 level