.

HK82205128

HEREDITY, PERSONALITY TRAITS, PRODUCT ATTITUDE, AND PRODUCT CONSUMPTION 379

of alcohol, cigarettes, and coffee cain be caplained hy a
genetic factor, and also to what extent heredity can be
the link between the two personality traits (anviety and
Catraversion-introversion) and the attitude toward and
consumption of these three products. Attinue demon-
Strated no significant genetic compunent for the thice
Products ar any combination of variables. In addition.
HO genetic compunent was found fot the two personality
traits: A significant genetic component was found in
the consumption of all three products, as well as in the
combination of cigarettes and anxiety. cigarettes and
alcohol, and cigarcites and coffee. These results are not
Ncomistent with the bisic rationale tor this study, ie.,
that consumption has a genetic component, Tis impor-
tant in future research to focus attention on the selection
Of personality medsuces and product.

Bt should be pointed out that front a marketing point
of view, even if the variance in the attitude toward and
the consumption of i product could be in some part ev-
Plained by the genetic factor. this does not mph that
“environmental” efforts to influence the consumer should
cease. Homeans that the genetic factor should be tuken
into account in developing strategy for thew efforts A
further implication is that a consumer coulil he in
fluenced more for praduets that have a low genetic factor
than for those with a high one. We have te bear in mind
that even if the genetic component can significantly ev-
Plain the variance between users and nonusers of it

roduct. or the frequenes of Usage, Nowhere is The cham
Made that the market share for the brand #MONE Usces ts
intluenced by the genetic component. Therelote. aatket-
ing efforts for the brand are justitied.

A substantial portion of marketing effort is directed
toward the desclopment of selective demand rather than
Primary demand for at Product category The tentative
conclusions established in this Stud. that comaemption
has a genetic component, apply only to the primary des
mand for the product cutegory and not for the Acheetive
demand of a brand. Management considerations aside,
What this study suggests is that heredity is a variable
worth caamining if connection with attempts to ander:
stend and explain consumer behavior.

REFERENCES

1. Awl Henry and George § Day "Attias und Awareness
is Predictors of Market Shute.” deanna! ot tals Havertys Re.
Acarch, &Decenibet 1468), 3-92 .

2 Avelrod. JooD N. “Attitude Measures that Predtiet Purchase”
Fomaal of Adverts Researcl. & (Math Iya Ups

~> 3. Benade. AW. “the Development of the Sher borin: ot the

Manifest Anwiety Sude” diurnal of Convene Puvchotys,
20 October 1988), Ind

4. Cattell, ROB. DB Blewett, and JOR Belutf “Phe an
hetitunce of Personality.” Aneraun Journal ot Mamiecn
Genches, 7988), 123-46

S$ Cedtiu&. RT. bribere. FE. Jonsson, and Eo Koay “Stuxtes on

,

Similarity Diagnosis in Twins with the Aid of Maited Ques.
Hennes” dite Genetica, TECYGD, 3An-62
6. Cahen, doch Bo“ The Role of Penonality in Consumer He-
havior” an HOH Kassupan and T. § Roberton, eds Me e-
specie tn Convener Heteaven. Glegies. ME Seon, Lures
man, PUGS, DI Ta, .
7) Beans, Prenklin K “Pay chological and Obyectye Pacrore in
the Prediction of Keand Choe.” Jaana! af Meestians, 32
(Ovfaber 1969), 340-49
Basemk. HOD Plc Seaeetete Sends of Porseonality. Londen
Routledge and Kegon Paul. §as2 ,
9% ———. The Inheritance of | Atnacisien Intrversiun,”
deta Pwehedevna, V2 So0 98 Ln
Wh ——-—. “A Short Quesuonnaite for the Measurement of
Pua Dimensions of Petsonabity 0 Jetenal of Applad Pu.
» Chao, 42 hebraity 1980, 14.7 ,
VS Db Stretton ot Hann Py reality, second ode
tien Pondon Methuen, ryan

 

~

2. ——— Wohin, Mealth and Me reatelian New York Hasty

Books, 1988

PR + tie ce BRE The Inheritance of Netirotscisin
An Eapeummenital Steady.” delurmtad eof Mentect 4e ae, 97
Ualy Meda, ai t-ns

od) Gonesmon, Ining 1 “Hentubilily of Penonaliy 4 Denman:
Station” Psvchohesical Manevraphs General atid stppud,
77 196%, Whale No, $72, 1-24

1S Helvingery. KJ. "Phe Relatne Filect of Nature and Nur-
ture Jatluences on Twins Differences” Jeuzend of Latics
tional Puctielon, MAL ah 1924), J4 Jb.

fe Kamen, Joseph Mf, “Personality sind Food Preferences.”
J tiraed ot Advortstre Rew arch, 4 (September Wade 29 3

17 Reponen. Arthur, “Personality Chatacteristiss uf Pur-

  

Shasen” dereenal ot Adveriine Rewureds, 1 tseptembs: |

T¥ens @. 15

1S Pattanen, J. K Broun, and T. Markhanen dake riteine oe
fheens Aetwee Helsinkt The Finnish Foundation for

: Reseatch, 1966 .

Epres. Maishael ‘Discrummunt Analysis of Relations Be:
teeeo ( onsimers Atitide. Béhavair und Intention.” Jeaes
tebet Adverse Reseatch, 9 Gune 1969), 34-9, ,

Mt Shields, Po Af mosvecte Tian, Ovford Ontard Uaweisity
Bagas, 14a

ot Smart. ROG “Akohol ¢ omumption and Anxiety in College
Student.” Joomrial of General Pachulowy, TS anuaty
Mass Wy

22 SnuthoG M “Personality Cortebites of C igarette Sntohing
in Students of College Agel. danas of the Aw York
ed ory ot Sate, FAD 196°, BONE,

“Relais between Persenatily and Smoking Re.
havi an Preadult: Subjects.” Juaal ef Comvadans grid
Chawcal Pavchologs 33 (December 1909), 710-8

24 SmatheS Mundt S Penrose "Monory gone and Dizy gutio
Tin Diagnosis Wats of Haman Grin in 9 UOkS,
a7 84

28 Sparks. Daval tt and WT tivker 74 Muluvannate Anuh-
Soot Poponhity and Prout Usec Jannat oof Muarke tine
Resairel 3 ebay (87h 67 Fo.

26 basher WOT and John f Panter “Porunality and Product
Gel Jeuemad at Arplad Psctelon 48 Wctober Wold,
assy '

7 Udell don G-Can Atte Meastirement: Predict Cun:
samiet Hebi Jornal ot Markee. 29 tOctaber 19684,
de su

28 Vehiowe. Donald) Paortran Programming fer tle Beli ~
tonal Names New York Holt, Rinehart and Winston, B8h*

oY West, Ralph “Pavchologieal Ructors in Prediung Mrad-
Wis Chones Sand ot Markenne, Mt (Apia 1963), 44-40