#

PHILIP MORRISUSA SINT ER-OF FICE CORRESPONDENCE

420 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, NY 10017-5592

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Distribution DATE: February 15, 1994
Marketing Information & Analysis/Bruce Neidle
INTEGRATED NIELSEN PANEL

Beginning with January 1994 data (to be issued the first week of March), a new
"Integrated" Nielsen service will be featured in place of the Nielsen Expanded audit
panel. This represents the next phase in our development plan to provide a
comprehensive weekly & monthly tracking service with representation of major trade

classes.

The new Integrated panel will combine audit data from the existing 800 convenience
stores in the Expanded panel with Nielsen scanner data from supermarkets (2,000
stores), drug stores (250) and mass merchandisers (250).

Enhancements
* The new service will provide a unified data source for both weekly and monthly
tracking, with each individual trade class and all outlet combined data available on a

weekly and monthly basis.

- Flash reports will be available in about +15 business days from the close of the
period (beginning with February 1994 data) and on-line access will following in
approximately 2-3 days. The delivery schedule will improve to + 10 business days by
the fourth quarter 1994.

* Standard causal data (including instant redeemable coupon incidence and values,
features and displays) will uniformly be available for each trade class. Additionally,
beginning the fourth quarter 1994, causal collection in the scanning trade classes will
expand to include buy downs, incentives and free product deals to be consistent with
current weekly collection practices in the 400 store weekly C-store audit service.

- Pricing data will be available for all trade classes, with supermarket, drug and mass
merchandiser data reflecting the actual scanned price and c-store data reflecting the
posted price (exclusive of coupons).

* Total sample size will increase by 22% to 3,300 stores, with the expansion
concentrated in supermarkets, providing stronger representation and statistical
confidence in the data, particularly at the Section level.

- New store groups will be available including Nielsen county size (A,B,C and D) for
all trade classes and Retail Masters/Non Masters and Chain/Independents for
supermarkets and convenience stores.

* All back data will be restated to reflect the Field Sales redeployment from 24 to 22
Sections.

- Key account data will be available for a total of 88 scanning supermarket retailers,
six drug stores and six mass merchandisers (including K-mart and Wal Mart).

TS664S9b0¢