I THE WALL STREET JOURNAL MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1996 BS
ere

 

RJR Is Planning
Final Market Test
For New Cigarette

By Suen L. Hwanc

And Timotuy Noay
Staff Reporters of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co, is taking the
final steps to prepare Eclipse, its new
low-smoke cigarette, for the consumer
“market amid an effort to gather support

from antismoking forces. .

Officials at No. 2 cigarette maker Rey-

; olds say they are readying Eclipse for

final market testing, slated to take place in
the Chattanooga, Tenn., are je next
six to ela weeks. igned to

é and cancer-causing tars by heating
rather than burning tobacco, Eclipse
marks the latest in a long and troubled
quest by the cigarette industry to come up
with a safer product. .

The company ts “happy with the prod-
uct,” and wants to test a few marketing
messages, said David Fishel, a spokesman
for the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. unit.
“We've done very extensive focus-group
testing, and we want to get one last look in
the marketplace before we really consider
selling," he said, adding that the Chatta-
nooga test won't involve selling Eclipse to
consumers,

Meanwhile, public-health officials say
Reynolds is assembling a group of leading
tobacco opponents to brief them on the
technical details of Eclipse. At a time when
the nation’s biggest clgarette makers are
fighting a move by the Food and Drug
Administration to regulate tobacco, the
meeting appears to be an attempt by
Reynolds to defuse opposition from to
bacco-control forces against its unusual
new product,

vs Renee

————————————

‘one leading tobacco foe, New Jersey
medicine professor John Slade, said Rey-
nolds has invited him and other health
advocates to a meeting about Eclipse, ten-
tatively scheduled for Friday at the com-
pany’s Winston-Salem, N.C., headquar-
ters. Dr. Slade, an associate professor
of medicine at the University of Medicine

“ and Dentistry of New Jersey, said partici-
ts will "gauge how each side feels
about what the other has to say.”
~ Reynolds's Mr. Fishel sald he wasn’t
" aware of any such meeting and declined to
comment. Reynolds's efforts with Eclipse
follow its disastrous investment in &
smokeless cigarette called Premier, which
it withdrew in 1989 after just five months of
test-marketing. In addition to attracting
criticism from health advocates, Premier
drew scant interest from smokers, many of
whom found it too hard to light and disliked
the taste. Others complained the product
was too hard to draw on, forcing smokers
to suck hard td get any favor out of It.
Reynolds ultimately sank $100 million In
the lil-fated product, = tures eves
Any bid to offer Bclipse to the is

sure to draw close scrutiny from the FDA. °

When Reynolds trotted out Premier, to-
‘bacco ‘opponents were quick to declare it

-t a novel. nicotine-delivery device and de-
Y manded that the PDA regulate It, And last

year, the FDA launched a landmark effort
r to regulate even ordinary tobacco products
as drug-delivery devices. - Lyk 4

+} > “From what we've been told, this prod.
uct certalnly appears to be a nicotine-deliv-

ery device,” said Jim O'Hara, 8. FDA
spokesman. But he added that the age

“F would need more data from the company

. about this “unconventional product’. to
evaluate its regulatory status. - mo
St ae ue ering Reynoli's
belped o: mee!
aa representatives of neither the
FDA nor any other government body were
Invited to RJR's planned briefing...«..--
- Belipse first surfaced In late 1904, wheh
it was revealed that Reynolds was testing
the cigarette in focus groupe the

burn tobacco and retains [te
length even when finished, yee
But there are some important differ;

ar
wa

: | dnces between the two. Premier felled g
“Pap aluminum Cylinder that bed beads of
ta

 

SLZSISOVOe