#12 KDF-2 at No. 12 (1-8) (Cont'd.)

b. Separatc cooling units were employed for the garniture and
the chill bar (55-60°F., and 40-45°F., respectively). Two
1/2 ton chillers were used temporarily, and Bill Batts is
having one 3/4 ton unit built with 2 pumps.

2. Action Plan

a. Make necessary arrangements for filter production to permit
testing continuously at 525 meters per minute (4605 cuts per
minute).

b. Meter power and air consumption at high speeds (C. E. Scott
will have Phil Burt follow up).

c. Jim Maddre: will make vibration checks on cutter section.
d. Report on program mid-January.
#12 KOF at W.P.

Heat removal and noise control studies at normal operating speeds will
continue as planned for the present. Position will be evaluated in
January and decision will be made regarding expansion to No. 64 or

No, 12.

If high speed runs at No. 12 and No. 64 are successful in January,
it was agreed that a KDF-2 at W.P. should be tested at high speed.

General

In addition to the above, Jim Maddrey reported that work to date at
611 regarding the cutting head section revealed problems with knife
flutter and interference between the knives and ledger tubes at high
speeds. Blade thickness and shape were discussed in detail including
past work by maintenance personnel. No conclusions were reached other
than we need additional work in this area. This will be done by

Jim Maddrey who will set up a cutting head test section in the lab

and run it 24 hours per day at 5250 cuts per minute until failure to
identify weaknesses.

Mr. Maddrey also reported that increasing KDF-2 speeds at W.P. Filter
would increase noise levels to the point where employees must wear
hearing protection devices. Installation of noise control modifica-
tions would require heat removal.

Maintenance personnel feel that within 30 days of continuous running

at high speeds, maintenance problem areas can be pinpointed in the cutting
head section. Additional work including heat removal will be necessary
for other drive mechanisms. In addition, Tom Lowe will check with

Hauni regarding any information or plans for testing at high speed they
may have on the KDF-2.

D. P. Montgomery, Jr.
Manufacturing

 

6962 6cEeTS