NO. OF ANIMALS
WALES FEMALES

GROUP TREATMENT
1 Vehicle Control 5 5
2 Phenobarbital (60 mg/kg) 5 5
5 B-85 (1250 mg/kg) * 5 5

 

“Ninety-one percent of the Maximum Tolerated Dose.

All animals assigned to the study received a unique identification
number. Individual animals were identified by ear punch. Treatment
groups were identified by colored cage cards and arranged vertically on
the rack.

Vehicle control and test material animals were dosed via oral
gavage. The positive control animals received 60 mg/kg of phenobarbital,
intraperitoneally. Atl animals were dosed daily for four (4} consecutive
days. On the day following the last day of treatment (Day 5), each animal
was dosed with 75 mg/kg, i.p., sodium hexobarbital. During sleep, each
animal was placed in a supine position and tilted at an approximate 30°
angle. The duration of hexobarbital-induced hypnosis was measured as the
time elapsing from loss of righting reflex until the animal could success-
fully right itself from the supine position twice within 30 seconds.

IN-VITRO ENZYME ASSAYS
Test Animals

Fifteen male and fifteen female Sprague-Dawley rats between 120-
140 grams (Charles River Breeding Laboratories, Wilmington, Massachusetts )
were selected. Animals were quarantined for at least seven days and
observed daily for appearance and behavior. All animals were individually
housed in suspended stainless steel wire-mesh bottom cages. Purina®
Rodent Laboratory Chow® #5001 and water were available ad libitum.

Experimental Design - In Life

The in-life phase of the enzyme induction assay was conducted as
outlined for the hexobarbital sleep-time assay including the administration
. of the test article at 912 of the MTD. After four days of daily dosing,

terminal body weights were recorded and animals were sacrificed (on Day 5)

by decapitation (guillotine). Food was removed from the rats the night
before sacrifice (12 hours), although water was available ad libitum.
The livers were quickly excised, weighed, and placed in cold Tris buffer
(containing isotonic KC] and .02 M Tris).

-3-

TLEBETSS