CC: Dae. Ramepenay. STERCE,

 

Name: Martha C. Nowycky, Ph.D.
Title: Nicotinic Receptors: Role in Secretion of Catecholamines from Chromaffin
Cells

Grant #: 4373

Reviewer: Pierce

Critique

This proposal appears to be a fine tuning of what is already known about the opening
of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor channels resulting in non specific cation flow and
depolarization of cells. Calcium influx is obligatory for the exocytotic fusion of
catecholamine-containing granules with the plasma membrane. The Pl has found that
opening nicotinic catecholamine reactors by puff application of nicotine triggers exocytosis
which is regulated by calcium contribuled from intracellular stores. There are 3 such pools:
an IP3 sensitive store, a caffeine sensitive store and an IP3-and caffeine-sensitive store. She
noticed that the exocytotic response to standard depolarizing voltage pulses that open calcium
channels was potentiated after the cell had been exposed to nicotine. This potentiation did
not require extracellular calcium, persists for 10 minutes and again, she believes that the
mechanism may include activation of specific intracellular stores. Similar potentiation of
depolarization-induced secretion was observed when cells were exposed to thapsigargin which
elevates calcium in bovine chromaffin cells. The PI is proficient in patch clamping and with
her associate, Dr. Formina, has studied the effect of nicotine on depolarized evoked secretion
and she postulates that the mechanism may involve specific intracellular calcium stores. She
will use a perforated patch mode to study secretion in the absence of cell dialysis which
allows enough time for the slow run down observed in whole cells, which will enable her to
study the potentiation effects. The strategy is to deplete or block the various intracellular
calcium stores, and then study the reactions in the presence of nicotine. She will also
determine which second messenger systems participate in nicotine triggered secretion.

The experiment seems logical and are in the hands of a person capable of carrying
them out. Iam ambivalent about these experiments and would recommend a priority of
about 1.8 but could be moved in either direction by Dr. Sabatini.

Recommendation

Approval with priority of 1.8.

CTR-CONFIDENTIAL SUBJECT TO P.O. IN US v. PM ET AL. 99CV2496 (SCIENTIFIC PEER-REVIEW MATERIAL)