Chromosome Rearrangements and DNA Repair
Preliminary Proposal
George Weinstock, Ph.D.

Summary

Research in my laboratory has been concerned with DNA repair and
recombination. For the past several years we have been studying unequal crossing
over (UCO) or ectopic recombination. UCO is the recombination that occurs
between repeated sequences that align out of register with the rest of the
chromosome. This type of recombination leads to chromosome rearrangements
such as duplications, deletions, inversions and translocations. Moreover, UCO is
stimulated by DNA damage. The purpose of the proposed research is to:

1 Continue studies in E. coli to understand the mechanism of UCO and develop
an assay for UCO that will allow us to investigate this phenomena in all
organisms.

2. Use this assay to investigate UCO in eukaryotic cells and determine the effect of
DNA damaging treatments, DNA repair systems, ageing, and other factors.

Background

UCO is recombination between repeated sequences that gives rise to
duplications, deletions, inversions, and chromosome translocations. In man these
types of rearrangements are associated with a variety of diseases. On the X
chromosome alone, examples of diseases resulting from rearrangements causing
deletions are Kallmann syndrome, Aicardi syndrome, Goltz syndrome, X-linked
xeroderma pigmentosum. An example of a duplication and a deletion that occur
between the same repeated sequences is Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, caused by the
duplication, and HNPP syndrome, in which case the same region is deleted. There
are, of course, other examples of less severe diseases that are caused by
rearrangements on the X chromosome, perhaps most notable being the variations
in color vision caused by recombination between tandemly repeated opsin genes.
The effects on color discrimination point out another consequence of UCO; namely
that hybrid sequences are formed. In the case of color vision, recombination
between these slightly different opsin genes leads to new hybrid genes with altered
spectral sensitivities. In addition, numerous examples of rearrangements on the
other human chromosomes have been related to disease. It is anticipated that many
human disorders will be ultimately related to these types of chromosome
rearrangements. Thus, understanding the mechanism by which rearrangements
occur and developing more sensitive assays for detecting rearrangements is
important to the molecular medicine of the future.

Our laboratory has studied UCO in E. coli. Our use of this bacteria as a model
system was mainly prompted by its ease of genetic manipulation. However, UCO is
also important in bacterial pathogenesis. For example, Vibrio cholera amplifies the

 

50619005