Preliminary Proposal page 2
George Weinstock, Ph.D. February 11, 1993

gene for cholera toxin by UCO between repeated sequences that flank the toxin gene.
Enterococcus faecalis, one of the major agents in hospital infections, can become
resistant to high levels of the antibiotic tetracycline by UCO amplification of a
tetracycline resistance gene that it carries. Finally, Salmonella typhinurium
develops a growth advantage over other bacteria by amplifying genes involved in
nutrient transport through UCO between repeated sequences,

The results of our own studies on E. coli. can be summarized as follows:

(1) The frequency of duplications is quite high. Typically any gene around the
chromosome is duplicated in from 1 in 1000 to 1 in 10,000 cells.

(2) The frequency of duplication is stimulated by DNA damaging treatments.
Modest doses of UV radiation are sufficient to increase duplication frequencies by 10
to 100 fold resulting in some genes being duplicated in as many as 5% of the cells in
a culture.

(3) The size of the duplications is quite large. The average duplication is
between 5 and 10% of the E. coli. chromosome, although duplications of over 40% of
the chromosome have been observed.

(4) Duplications occur between many different repeated sequences and thus a
large variety of rearrangements are possible.

(5) The process of duplication appears to be controlled. The mismatch repair
system normally inhibits duplication of some regions. However, other regions are
insensitive to mismatch repair implying that other syslems must be controlling
UCO as well.

(6) When a duplication is observed in one region of the chromosome,
reatrangements are often seen in other regions of the chromosome as well. This
implies that normally UCO is inhibited but when this inhibition is removed, UCO
can occur at a high frequency throughout the chromosome.

Proposed Experiments

Our goal is to continue our studies in E. coli and use this knowledge to
develop a general assay for UCO. This assay will then be employed to study this
process in eukaryotic cells including human cells. The assay that we propose would
be based on the PCR. The basic idea behind the assay is that repeated sequences that
are normally far apart on the chromosome will be brought close together at the
junction of an unequal crossing over event. Thus, PCR primers directed against
sequences flanking the repeats will only give a signal when UCO has occurred. We
are currently developing this assay using duplications in F. coli and have found that
duplications are readily detectable. What we would like to do is to improve the
sensitivity so that we can detect UCO events that occur in the much larger
mammalian genome. A variety of PCR methods have been described in the
literature that can detect sequences in as few a one in a million cells. These assays
have been used for early detection of cancer cells, HIV, and other disease related
sequences. We believe it should be possible to combine these regimens in a UCO
detection scheme.

50619006 _