THE COUNCIL FOR TOBACCO RESEARCH-U.S.A., INC, ©
a
SUPPORTING BIOMEDICAL INVESTIGATION . 900 THIRD AVENUE
New YORK, NY 10022
(212) 421-8885

ARTHUR D. EISENBERG, PH.D.
ASSOCIATE RESEARCH DIRECTOR

July 12, 1993

Gary A. Silverman, M.D., Ph.D.
Harvard Medical School
Department of Pediatarics
Joint Program in Neonatology
300 Longwood Avenue

Enders 9

Boston, Massachusetts 02115

Dear Dr. Silverman:

Thank ‘you for your interest in our program of research support. Iam pleased to enclose
our Statement of Policy, Information for Applicants and a recent Annual Report that lists
currently supported grants and contains abstracts of papers that have appeared over the
last year acknowledging support from The Council for Tobacco Research.

Our two-step application process is described on a separate enclosed sheet: it addresses
several topics including eligibility, funding levels, award duration and specific
instructions for submitting a Preliminary Application. Each application is reviewed by
members of our Scientific Advisory Board, a panel of established biomedical scientists
who serve as our peer review committee.

Briefly, applicants must be faculty level scientists having appointments at not-for-profit
institutions. The Council supports independent investigator-initiated projects (one, two
or three years) in a variety of biomedical research areas, In the event you receive an
award, annual, non-competing renewal applications are required and continued funding
is based on your progress and the materials you submit with the renewal request forms.

The Council encourages proposals from younger researchers, but as you will see from the
Annual Report, a number of our awardees are established scientists. We ask that you
complete the enclosed "Current and Pending Support" form since some consideration is
given to your current funding level. Complete scientific freedom is assured and our‘only
expectation is publication of research results in appropriate peer-reviewed journals.

cs

i pV ( 2. | - .
Le At \ . a" , . : . : {/.
L oe “ c gk o Sincerely, (C: i
er : v \ che : wk u : Ne ee L [Lo C Ue
yr }
v © HS M f Arthur D. Eisenberg
2 ya o. . .
\a 2 OS CL iu _* 7 _.
- \ /

‘ at”

: ate

\ N ¥
encl. ”