Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacologe™

29:16-22 © 1997 Lippincott-Raven Publishers. Philadel shia

Dietary Coenzyme Q10 Supplementation Alters Platelet Size and-
Inhibits Human Vitronectin (CD51/CD61) Receptor Expression

Victor L, Serebruany, “Jose V. Ordonez, *William R. Herzog, Morten, Rohde,
7Svend A. Mortensen, {Karl Folkers, and Paul A. Gurbel

Heart Associates Research & Education Foundation, *University af Maryland School of Medicine, Baltinore, Maryland. USA;
The National Universin: Hospital (Rigshospital) Copenhagen, Denmark; and Lnstitute for Biomedical Research,
University af Texas, Austin, Texas, U.S.A.

 

Summary: Improved cardiovascular morbidity and mortal-
ity have been observed in several clinical studies of dietary
supplementation with coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, ubiquinone).
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the ef-
fects of CoQL0, but a comprehensive explanation of its car-
didprotective properties is still lacking. One attractive theory
links ubiquinone with the inhibition of platelets. The effect
of CoQtO intake on platelet size and surface antigens was
examined in human volunteers. Study participants received
100 mg of CoQ10 twice daily in addition to their usual diet
for 20 days. Receptor expression was measured by flow cy-
tometry with monoclonal murine anti-human antibodies
CD9 (p24), CD42B 1b}. CD4 1b (I[b), CD61 (Ila), CD41a
(Ib/IHa), CD49b (VLA-2). CD62p (P selectin), CD31
(PECAM-1). and CDS1-CD61 (vitronectin), An increase of
total scrum CoQ10 level (from 0.6 = 0.1 to 1.8 £03 pg/ml;

p < 9.001) was found at protocol termination. Fluorescence
intensity was higher for the large platelets when compared
with the whole platelet population. Significant inhibition of
vitronectin-receptor expression was observed consistently
throughout ubiquinone treatment. Reduction of platelet size
was observed at the end of CoQLO supplementation. Inhibi-
ton of the platelet vitroncctin receptor and a reduction of the
platclet size are direct evidence of a link between dietary
CoQ10 intake and platelets. These findings may not be fully
explained by the known antioxidant and bioenergetic prop-
erties of CoQ10. Diminished vilronectin-receptor expres-
sion and reduced platelet size resulting from CoQ 11! therapy
may contribute to the observed clinical benefits in patients
with cardiovascular diseases. Key Words: Coenzyme
Q10—Ubiquinone—Antioxidants—Platelets-—Vitronectin
receptor—Flow cytometry—Human.

 

Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, ubiquinone) is a naturally
occurring substance which functions as an electron
carrier in oxidative phosphorylation (1). CoQ10 has
been observed to promote stabilization of cell mem-
branes in vitro and to exert bioenergetic and antiox-
idative effects by acting as a free radical scavenger (2).
CoQ10 also limits mitochondrial respiratory activity,
resulting in a decrease of intracellular adenosine
triphosphate (3).

The role of dietary CoQ10 intake in cardiovascular
pathophysiology has been increasingly investigated.
Although humans can synthesize CaQ10, some pa-
tients may be relatively deficient in this substance. Ex-
perimental and clinical data provide evidence that
CoQ10 supplementation in patients with cardiomy-
opathy and chronic heart failure is associated with im-
provements in clinical outcome, exercise capacity, and
quality of life (4,5). It also has been demonstrated that
CoQ10 is beneficial in the treatment of ischemic heart

Received April 15, 1996: revision accepted May 30, 1996.
Address correspondence and reprint Tequests to Dr. V. L. Serebruany
at Heart Associates Research & Education Foundation, Union Memor-

disease (6). Improved myocardial contractility after
CoQ10 supplementation during ischemia—reperfu-
sion injury in a swine model also was reported (7),
Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the
effects of CoQ10, but a comprehensive explanation of
its cardioprotective properties is still lacking.

Platelet aggrepation plays an important role in the
development and progression of numerous cardiovas-
cular diseases (8). Free radicals are established pro-
moters of platelet activation and have documented
strong proaggregatory properties (9). Moreover. oxy-
gen radicals could modulate platelet surface selectin
expression (10) and could enhance P selectin—depen-
dent platelet-mediated leukocyte rolling (11). Peroxi-
dation products stimulate platelet-release factors and
activate membrane glycoprotein IIb/Illa (GP IIb Ula)
(12). Therefore it is reasonable to expect that one
mechanism by which antioxidants may produce clini-
cal benefits in patients with cardiovascular diseases is

ial Hospital, 200 East 33rd Street, Suite 501, Baltimore, MD 21218,
USA,

16

50546182