Ventre 1
Ozedation of nueetine ba methule ne blag supplemented
credhe crtruls

Espermmental comlitions 1 amole nicotine, 102 smoles potas-
sium phosphate buffer, pH 7. 1 »mole methslenc blue where
noted, 1 ml). crude estract; total volume 2.0 ml.. gas phase air
30°. The age of the extract: represents eas of storage, after
preparation, at — 13°.

 

Eaperiment No Age of catract Methylene blue Or Mer sonsumesd

 

 

1 days , al

1 0 _ a
+ TR

4 - 2

+ 65

2 0 - 0
+ v3

J - o

+ or

 

160

40 80 120
TIME IN MINUTES

Fig. 1. The oxidation of nicotine hy a crude extract. lo the
presence of methylene blue, the reaction mixture contained 5
umoles of nicotine, 120 uzmoles of potas~ium phosphate buffer, pH
7, and I mi. of crudeextract. In the absence of methviene blue.
the reaction mixture contained 1 wmole of nicotine, 88 wmoles of
potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7, and 1 ml. of crude extract.
Data corrected for oxygen consumption in the absence of sub-

strate. Total volume, 2.0 m1., gas phaxe air, 30°.

Tape ll

Ozygen consumption and carbon diozide formation dvriny nicotine
oxidation by methylene bine-supplemented crude extracts

Experimental conditions: 5 wmoles nicotine, 120 smoles potas-

sium phosphate buffer, pH 7, 1.25 »zmoles methylene blue, 11 mg.

(Experiment 1) and 17.3 mg (Experiment 2) crude extract.

total volume 2.0 ml., ga~ phase air, 30°.

wMoles 0x) gen sonsumed we Mole« cetben diowde produce)

Experiment _— =e tee —. — wees
wo
Tout Peyton PS
1 14.5 20 ag 0.39
2 13.8 2 T&S 0 38

PUBLICATIONS

 

Nieatue Orutation by Cell-free Preparations, J

Vol. 234, No. 1

Onidative activity in aged evthacts was restored be the addition
of methylene blue, brilliant cresyl blue, and 2. 6-dichlorophenolin-
dophenel, but not by a number of cofactem, by metallic ions,?
or by evll debris.

In addition to restoring oxidative activity lost during storage,
methylene blue rendered active those estracts which did not
ovidize nicotine when freshly prepared, and stimulated the nite
of oxygen consumption in those extracts which initially had osi-
dative activity (Table I). No onnlation of nicotine was observed
in the abscnee of enzyme thus ruling out a photochemical osida-
tiun of nicotine by methylene blue (12) under the coniitions
employed.

Methylene blue also affected the manner in which nicotine
ovidation occurred. Whereas unsupplemented extracts onislized
hicutine at a constant rate, methylene bluc-supplemented crude
o\tracts oxidised nicotine in a acries of steps of decreasing oxida-
tive rate (Fig. 1). These rate changes oceurred after the con-
sumption of nearly 0.5 gamole of oxygen, or some integral multipte
of 0.3. per pmole of nicotine until a total of approximately 3
umoles of oxygen per mole of nicotine was consumed. The
data presented indicate rate changes after the consumption of
0.6, 1.6, 1.9, 2.5, and 2.8 wmoles of oxygen per pmole of nicotine.
The position of the changes differed from extract to extract, and,
in most experiments, the first thange in rate occurred after the
consumption of 1 ymole of oxygen per gmole of nicotine. Total
oxygen consumption was uxunily 3 gmoles per umole of nivetine,
but occasionally somewhat smaller or larger values were obsorvesd.
Assuming that 2 electrons were transferred por oxidative step,
the tvpiceal crude extract catalyzed six oxidative reactions in
nicotine degradation. No significant amounts of carbon dioxide
were released up to thix point of osidution (Table 11), suggesting
that the fundamental carben skeleton of nicotine might still be
intuct.

Chromatography of Reaction Mixtures —Chrothatograms run on
reaction mixtures stopped at thr first rate change (after the con-
sumption of approximately 0.5 amole of oxygen per amole of
nicotine) showed no residual nicotine, but did show another
compound with a lower Ry. After the conxumption of approxi-
mately 1 yxmote of oxygen per pmole of nicotine, neither nicotine
nor the previous compound was detected, and a single new ultra-
vilet light-absorbing and Dragendotff reagent-positive spot was
observed (Table IED. It would appwar not only that products
had arcumulated at the points at which change of rate oveurred,
but also that casentinl]y all of the initial substrate was con-
sumed before oxidation of the subsequent substrate was initi-
ated.

Changes in Ultraviolet: Absorption Spectra —With the consump-
tion of 0.5 umole of oxygen per smule of nicotine, a marked
change in the ultraviolet absorption spectrum of the reaction
mixture was observed. The uhsorption maximum at 260 mu
due to the pyridine moiety of nivotine disappeared, and in
its plare 2 absorption maxima appeared, a rather sharp and in-
tense peak at 232 mg, and a peak of lower extinction at 205 my.
These peaks were absent after the consumption of | ymole of

* The following cofactors and metallic ions were tried individu.
aily and in combination wath vegative results: ATP, ADP, DPN,
TPN, Cod, GSH. riboflavin, siloflavin.d. phosphate, evtochrome
CC) MgsS0.-7Hw0. Mnso.dHi0,  Cnso,- SHO, FeSO, THO,
FeC),, ZoS0,-6H.0, CoC), -6HLO, and Mots.

I Aithough the observed Ar vulue. were very cloxe, the com.
pound with an Kp of 0.12 gave u much redder color with Dragen-
dorft’s reagent than the componted with an Ay of 0.09.

031277