“ te BigLeeelcad Ch ANT ey 2/67 a) I Aw 6gye
’ , f

The Bacterial Oxidation of Nicotine

I. NICOTINE OXIDATION BY CELL-FREE PREPARATIONS*

L. I. Hocusreint ano Sypney C. Rrrrenpero

From the Department of Bacteriology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California

(Received for publication, August 18, 1958)

Various pathways have been postulated for nicotine degrads,-
tion involving an initis] attack at either the pyridine or the
pyrrolidine rings. ‘The evidence for the suggested pathways has
been provided mainly by the isolation of a variety of compounds
from bacterial growth media (1, 2), tobacco seed infusions (3),
fermented tobacco leaves (4), and the urine of animals that
previously had been fed nicotine (5, 6). Unfortunately, because
of the complexity of these systems it is not certain whether the
isolated products are directly or indirectly derived from nicotine,
nor is the sequence of their appearance clearly established. In
an effort to avoid the difficulties inherent in the use of complex
systems, studies of nicotine metabolisth were attempted st the
enzyme level employing crude and fractionated extracts derived
from 6 bacterium.

EXPERIMENTAL

The organism (designated as strain P-34) employed is a gram-
negative rod isolated from soil by enrichment culture techniques.
It is capable of using nicotine as its sole source of carbon and
energy but ite growth is stimulated by yeast extract. It wag
grown in a medium having the following composition in grams
per 100 ml.: 3.33 K,HPO,.3Hy0, 0.4 KH:PO,, 0.1 (NH,)3S0,,
0.1 yeast extract, 0.4 nicotine, and the following trace salts;
0.01 MgSO.-7H,0, 0.002 CaCi,-2H.0, 0.004 MnSO,-4H,0,
0.0002 FeSO,.7H:0. The trace salts were dissolved in 0.1 N
HCI at 100 times the fina! medium concentration, autoclaved,
and added aseptically to the medium in the required amounts.

For the preparation of lange batches of cells, growth was car-
ried out in 12-liter round bottom flasks containing 7 liters of
mediuro. The inoculated medium was aerated with sterile air
and incubated at room temperature. After the culture reached
the maximum stationary phase (approximately 60 hours), the
cells were harvested in a Sharples centrifuge. The unwashed
cell paste was stored at -18° until needed. Yields were of the
order of 6.5 gin. wet weight of cells per liter of medium.

Cell-free extracts were prepared according to the method of
Mcliwain (7) by grinding a mixture of 10 gm. of partially thawed
cells and 25 gm. of levigated alumina in 8 cold mortar. After
grinding for 10 to 14 minutes at room temperature, the cell-
alumina mixture became “tacky.” The resulting paste was
extracted with 30 ml. of 0.01 m potassiam phosphate buffer,
pH 7, for 15 minutes at room temperature and for 45 minutes at

* This work was supported by a grant from the Tobacco In-
dustry Research Committee. Preliminary results were presented
to the Society of American Bacteriologists, May 1957.

t Present address, Department of Medical Microbiology, Uni-
versity of Southern California School of Medicine.

4°. The alumina, unbroken cells, and cell debrie were removed
by centrifugation at 18000 x g for 60 minutes at 4°. The re-
sulting clear yellow supernatant fluid constituted the crude ex-
tract and contained, on the average, 22 mg. of protein per ml.

Ammonium gulfate fractionation of the crude extract was
carried out at room temperature by the addition of the hequired
amount of solid ammonium sulfate (8). After the addition of
the ammonium sulfate, the precipitated protein was removed by
centrifugation at 4° for 10 minutes at 18000 x g. The super-
natant solution was decanted, the pellet drained by inversion
and dissolved in 0.01 »¢ potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7; to give
& final volume of approximately one-fourth that of the starting
crude extract. All ensymatic fractions were stored at —15°
if not used immediately.

, Protein was determined by trichloroacetic acid precipitation
(9), crystalline egg albumin being used as the standard. The
optical density at 540 my was ietermined in a Bausch and Lomb
Spectronic-20.

Ultraviolet absorption spectra were determined with a Beck-
man model DU spectrophotometer. Reaction mixtures were
prepared for spectrophotometry by adding them to 2 volumes of
0.1 ~ HCl, removing the precipitated protein by centrifugation,
and, if required, diluting the clear supernatant solution with
additional 0.1 x HCI.

Oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production were
determined by conventional manometric techniques (10).

Reaction mixtures were chromatographed on Whatman No. 1
paper by the ascending technique. The solvent was an 85:5:30
mixture of n-butanol, bensene, and 0.2 a1 sodium acetate buffer,
pH 5.6 (11). The alkaloids were located by exposing the dried
chromatograms to cyanogen bromide vapors for 1 hour followed
by spraying with #-naphthylamine (a Koenig's reaction), by
ultraviolet absorption under a Mineralite lamp, or by treating

the paper with Dragendorff’s reagent.'
RESULTS

Oxidation of Nicotine by Crude Extracts Crude extracts pre-
pared from several independently grown batches of cells usually
oxidized nicotine at a slow but definite rate. The amount of
oxygen consumed varied from extract to extract and in many
cases no oxidation was observed. Furthermore, fresh extracts
which oxidised nicotine lost this ability upon storage at ~ 18°,

: Prepared by mixing & parts of solution A (0.85 gm. of bismuth
subnitrate, 40 ml. of distilled water, and 10 ml. of glacial acetic
acid) with 5 parte of solution B (8 gm. of potassium iodide in 20
ml. of distilled water), and adding 20 ml. of glacial acetic acid and
100 ml. of distilled water.

151

PUBLICATIONS

034276