154

VLITERS 02 /10 MIN,
J
°

60
sof

omxwre ¢ 2 3 4
M2103 05 'o re 820
om os tz oe 24

Fro. 4. The effect of nicotine, metbylene blue, and enzyme
concentrations upon the rate of nicotine oxidation. When not
employed as the variable, the concentrations of nicotine, methy]-
ene blue, and the 20 to 40 fraction were 2 X 10°? w, 1 X 10°? a,
and 28.4 mg. of protein per flask, respectively. When the 20 to
40 fraction was employed as the variable, the enzyme solution
contained 2.2 mg. of protein per ml.

DISCUSSION

The observed changes in rate during oxidation of nicotine by
crude extracts in the presence of methylene blue are puszling.
One could devise a model system exhibiting similar changes in
rate in which a series of single step oxidations proceed simul-
taneously but at successively decreasing rates. In such asystem,
the rate of oxygen uptake would change with the disappearance
of each member of the sequence in turn, and at the change, all
succeeding members would be present in proportion to the

difference in their rates of formation. Thus if
apc p q)

at the indicated rates, r, the initial rate of oxygen uptake would
be 6r and would change to 3r with the exhaustion of A. At
this point, 8, C, and D would be present in a ratio of 1:3:).
Although the rate changes during nicotine oxidation correspond
to pointa of temporary accumulation of intermediates, the
situation is quite different from the hypothetical example in
that the data show that none of the serially accumulated prod-
ucts are metabolized until their successive precursors have been
exhausted. That is, B is not oxidized until A is exhausted.
The mechanism responsible for this unique situation ia not
known. The possibility that each precursor competes with
its product for an enzyme site and thus inhibits product oxidation
was ruled out, at least in the case of the 0.5 umole of oxygen
product, by the following evidence. The 40 to 60 fraction,
which oxidizes both nicotine and the product that accumulates
after the consumption of 0.5 umole of oxygen per pmole of
nicotine (13), oxidized the latter compound at the same rate
in the presence and absence of nicotine. A second possibility
is that accumulation and changes of rate are a result of some
cofactor deficiency, a cofactor shared in common by several of
the enzymes involved in nicotine oxidation. This mechanism
would demand that the cofactor exist as 8 ternary complex
between enzyme, substrate, and cofactor, and thst the enzyme-
substrate complex have a very high affinity for the cofactor

Nicotine Oridation by Celi-free Preparations. I

Vol. 234, No. 1

relative to the affinity of the succeeding ensyme-cubstrate
complex.

The changes in the absorption spectrum during nicotine oxids-
tion provide a clue as to the nature of the initial oxidative step.
Nicotine, by virtue of its pyridine moiety, absorbs strongly st
260 mp. It is known (14) that the introduction of « double
bound in conjugation with the pyridine ring resulta in the
appearance of a new absorption maximum at 234 my accom-
panied by a bathochromic shift of the 200 my absorption maxi-
mum. The addition of a second double bond in conjugstion
with the pyridine ring resulte in an additional bathothromic
shift accompanied by a complete loss of the characteristic
abeorption maximum associated with the pyridine nucleus (14).
One possible interpretation of our spectrophotometric data is
that the initial reaction during the oxidation of nicotine produces
an unsaturation of the pyrrolidine ring. However, the failure
to observe a Koenig’s reaction subsequent to the consumption
of 0.5 pmole of oxygen per pmole of nicotine (Table III) im-
plicates either the nitrogen or the a-carbons of the pyridine ring
as the cites of attack (15). The two posible reactions in this
case would be the addition of oxygen to the pyridine nitrogen to
yiehl a pyridine-N-oxide derivative of nicotine, or the addition
of oxygen to either a-carbon to yieki a pyridone derivative of
nicotine. The possibility that the product was an A/-oxide
seemed unlikely when it was found that pyridine-N-oxide
iteelf, in 0.1 s HCl, has but a single absorption maximum
located st 255 my (13). A pyridine-N-oxide derivative of
nicotine would be expected to pomess an analogous absorption
spectrum in the ultraviolet. On the other hand, an authentic
sample of 2-pyridone, in 0.1 x HCI, exhibited 2 absorption maxi-
ma, one at 227 and the other at 297; the latter absorption maxi-
mum had a lower extinction (13). Thus it seems probable that
the first oxidative product is a pyridone and that the organism
P-34 initiates the oxidation of nicotine in a manner similar to
the pyridine pathway postulated by Frankenburg and Vaite-
kunas (3). In the following paper, the isolation and identifica-
tion of this compound will be described.

SUMMARY

Crude cell-free extracts prepared from a soil bacterium capable
of growing at the expense of nicotine as the sole source of carbon
and nitrogen degraded nicotine with the consumption of 3
umoles of oxygen per »mole of nicotine when supplemented with
metnylene blue. No carbon dioxide was formed up td this
level of oxidation.

With crude extracta, nicotine oxidation proceeded through a
series of sharp changes of rte occurring after the uptake of
0.5, or multiples of 0.5, mole of oxygen per zmole of nicotine.
Chromatographic evidence and ultraviolet absorption dats
indicated that each point of change of rate coincided with the
temporary accumulation of intermediates in the oxidation
sequence, and that none of the eerially accumulated inter-
mediates are oxidised until their precursors are exhausted. After
the consumption of 0.5 smole of oxygen per zmole of nicotine,
with the use of either a crude extract or an ammonium sulfate
fractionated enzyme, the absorption maximum at 260 my
resulting from nicotine disappeared, and s compound having
absorption peaks at 232 and 205 my appeared. With the
additional uptake of 0.5 umole of oxygen per nmole of nivotine,
these peaks disappeared and a new sbeorption maximum at
290 my was observed.

PUBLICATIONS - --~- - -031279--