+ SEPARATUM + Printed in Switzerland - S.KARGER - Basel - Miinchen - Paris « New York » SEPARATUM - Printed

' S.KARGER - Basel - Miinchen - Paris - New York

 

Neuroendocrinology 44: 197-200 (1985}

ne

 

Purification and Sequence of a Novel Ovine Adrenal Medullary

Peptide and Its Precursor

Radmila Micanovic, Purnima Ray, William K. ruggel, Randolph V. Lewis

Department of Biochemistry, University of Wyoming, Laramie, Wyo.. USA

Key Words. Adrenal medulla - Peptide, bioactive « Precursor

Abstract. A 24 amino acid polypeptide that does not originate from (pre)proenkephalin has been isolated from ovine
adrenal chromaffin granules. ls sequence is: Arg-Leu-Pro-Gly-Glu-Leu-Arg-Asn-Tyr-Leu-Asp-Tyr-Gly-Glu-Glu-Val-

Gly-Glu-Glu-Ala-Ala-Arg-Gly-Val. This peptide is generate
partially sequenced. The proteolytic cleavage occurs at a tri

banks shows very little homology to any known protein.

In the course of our attempts to elucidate the steps in-
volved in (pre)proenkephalin processing in both bovine
and ovine adrenal medullary cells [for review see ref. 5], we
have isolated a number of opioid and nonopiaid peptides
derived from proenkephalin [6, 12, 13]. We have also ob-
served a number of other peptides whose sequences were
not contained in the prohormone sequence [1, 7]. These
peptides were present in amounts equal to or greater than
the proenkephalin fragments and exhibited no cross-reac-
tivity with antisera against Met- and Leu-enkephalin. We
present here the purification and sequence of a peptide and
its precursor from ovine adrenal chromaffin granules that
are not derived from proenkephalin and which may be phy-
siologically active peptides secreted by the adrenal me-
dulla.

Materials and Methods

Fresh ovine adrenal glands were obtained from the slaughter-
house and kept on ice until dissection. Upon removal of the cortex,
chromaffin granules were prepared from the medulla by differen-
tial centrifugation as described elsewhere [2] and stored at -80°C
until further processing. The granules were lysed in | Afacetic acid
and 20 mM HCI containing 0.1% 2-mercaptoethanal (1:5 w/v).
Phenylmethane sulfonylfluoride in acetone and pepstatin A in eth-
anol (1 g/ml of each) were added as protease inhibitors just prior
to lysis. The final supernatant from 40,000 g centrifugation (1 h) of
the lysate was chromatographed on a Sephadex G-100 column a

 

Received: July 27, 1984
Accepted after revision: November 2, 1984

d from a precursor molecule that has also been purified and
ple Arg site. A search of the available protein sequence data

.
x 100 cm) ‘with lysis buffer lacking the protease inhibitors as an
eluant. Column fractions were pooled by molecular weight ranges
according to a previous work [8} yielding five peaks. Peptides of
2,000-5,000 and 5,000-10,000 dalton were used in further purifica-
tions.

The high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system
with the Muorescamine postcolumn detection as described by Lewis
[9] was used with acetic acid/pyridine buffer (0.5/0.2 Af, pH 4) and
I-propanol us the organic modifier at a flow rate of 0.75 ml/min.
The conditions for each chromatographic step are provided in the
figure legends.

Radioimmuncassays [10] were performed with antiserum ob-
tained from [mmunonuclear (Stillwater, Minn., USA) using ['251]-
Met- and Leu-enkephalin (New England Nuclear, Boston, Mass.,
USA). Prior to assay, the samples were treated with trypsin (Milli-
pore Corp., Freehold, N.J., USA) and carboxypeptidase B (Boch-
ringer Mannheim, FRG) [1 I

Amino acid analyses were carried out with the o phthalalde-
hyde precolumn labeling method [4] using a Rainin Cig column. A
Spectra Physics 8700 HPLC system and a Schoeffel/Kratos 950
fluorometer were employed with an Alltech 3 Cig column (4.6 x
150 mm). The gradient used was 50 mAfsodium acetate (pH 5.9) to
80% methanol in the same buffer, with 1% tetrahydrofuran in the
initial buffer.

Amino acid sequences were determined on approximately $00
pmol of peptide with the Applied Biosystem model 470A gas phase
protein sequencer according to the procedure of Hewick et al. {3}.
Phenylthiohydantoin amino acids were identified by HPLC (Beck-
man 344 HPLC system) using a Bukerbond $ # diphenyt column
(4.6 x 250 mm). The initial buffer was 66 mAf trifluoroacetic
acid/4 mA acetic acid brought to ptl 5.6 with NaOH, and the final
buffer was 3.5 mAf trifluoroacetic acid brought to pH 3.6 contain.
ing 75" acetanitrile. Phenylthiohydantion amino acids were de-
tected using a Schoetfel-Kratos 757 UV detector at 269 nm.