males and 1 day for females. Male feed consumption for the low
exposure group (0.033 mg/L) was significantly higher than male
feed consumption for the control group on Day 43; on Day 50, the
male feed consumption for the control group was significantly
lower than the feed consumption for the male exposure groups.
Female feed consumption for the high exposure group (0.660 mg/L)
was significantly higher than female feed consumption for the
control group on Day 36.

6.4.3.4.5.3.4 Mortality

During the 13-week exposure period, a total of five animals died
while confined in the restraining tubes. None of these deaths
was due to exposure to glycerol.

6.4.3.4.5.4.4 Pathology

6.4.3.4.5.4.4.1 Gross Observations at Necropsy

Very few gross lesions were observed, with no clear evidence of
changes attributable to exposure to glycerol.

6.4.3.4.5.5.4.2 Histopathologic Observations by Light Microscopy

Exposure to glycerol for 13 weeks did not appear to have any
serious pathologic effects on the tissues of rats in the opinion
of the contract laboratory pathologist. A slightly increased
incidence of PAM aggregates in alveoli of exposed rats might be
due to inhalation of glycerol. This response could be expected
to occur as a result of prolonged inhalation of any foreign
material. A slight apparent increase in the incidence of goblet
cell hyperplasia in mainstem bronchi of exposed rats may also be
due to glycerol exposure, representing increased mucus production
in response to the inhaled material. Both these lesions were of
low severity in exposed rats and would not be likely to have any
deleterious effect in animals exposed for long durations. No
effect of glycerol exposure was evident by microscopic
examination of other tissues.

6.4.3.4.5.4.3 Terminal Body Weights, Organ Weights, .Organ: Body
Weight Ratios, and Organ:Brain Weight Ratios

Differences for males were found for brain weight:body weight
ratio, and testes weight:brain weight ratio. The testes
weight:brain weight ratio was high for the low exposure group,
and the brain weight:body weight ratio was low for the low
exposure group. Female differences occurred for brain
weight:body weight ratio which was high for the low exposure
group and the lung weight:brain weight ratio which was high for
the medium exposure group.

6269 2190S