5 Se SERS ae 3 OD ee +

6.4.3.4.5 Results of 90-day Glycerol Inhalation Study in
- Rats Conducted at a Contract Laboratory

6.4.3.4.5.1 Executive Summary

The objective of this study was to investigate the potential
biological effects of subchronic nose-only inhalation exposures
to glycerol in the rat. Fifteen Sprague-Dawley-derived CD
rats/sex/group were exposed 6 hours/day, 5 days/week (Monday
through Friday) for 13 consecutive weeks to target aerosol
concentrations of 0.033, 0.165, or 0.660 mg glycerol/L of
filtered room air. An identical group served as sham-exposed
controls.

The rats were observed twice daily for signs of toxicity,
mordibity, and for mortality. Detailed clinical observations
were made monthly. Body weights were measured weekly. Feed
consumption was estimated also at weekly intervals.

Following the exposure period, the animals were killed and a
complete gross examination of tissues/organs was performed;
several organs were weighed and together with specified other
organs/tissues, examined histopathologically. In addition, blood
was collected and analyzed for specified hematological and
clinical chemistry parameters.

The results of this study indicate that subchronic (13-week)
exposure to glycerol aerosol under the described experimental
conditions had no biologically significant effects on any of the
parameters examined in the rats.

6.4.3.4.5.2 Test Article Exposure
6.4.3.4.5.2.1 Chemical Analyses of Glycerol

The test article, glycerol, was supplied by Procter and Gamble as
"Superol Glycerine, USP." Quality Code 911-716. An analytical
report supplied by Procter and Gamble indicated a purity of
99.3%. The identity of the test article was confirmed by
infrared (IR) spectrometry conducted at the testing laboratory.
In addition, samples of the glycerol were analyzed by Huffman
Laboratories (Wheat Ridge, CO) for water content. Water content
was determined to by 0.12%.

Samples were also analyzed from the reservoir from which glycerol
was drawn by the liquid nebulizer. Samples were taken prior to
and after 6 hour aerosol generation periods. Gas chromatographic
analysis of reservoir samples taken before a six hour aerosol
generation run and samples analyzed by the same procedure but
taken from the nebulizer reservoir after 6 hours of generation
demonstrated no change in reservoir glycerol content.

z2e9 2ZL90S