(4 levels), Nasopharynx, Larynx, Peribronchial Lymph Node, Thymic
Lymph Node, Trachea, Liver, Kidney, Heart, Gross lesions that are
suspected to potentially represent a test compound related
effect.

The remaining tissues were preserved in 10% neutral buffered
formalin.

6.4.3.4.2.7.3 Histopathology

All respiratory tract and related lymph node tissues obtained
from all animals and all gross lesions suspected to be test
article related were blocked for slides, sectioned, stained and
submitted for light microscopic examination. In addition, all
liver, kidney, and heart tissues from rats in the air control and
glycerol 4 mg/L exposure groups were blocked, sectioned, stained
and submitted for light microscopic examination. All slides were
stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Duplicate slides of lung and
trachea were made and stained with PAS Alcian Blue to evaluate
goblet cell changes.

6.4.3.4.2.8 Hematology and Clinical Chemistry

Hematological evaluations were conducted on all rats in each
treatment group and air control. Blood was collected from the
orbital sinus at scheduled necropsy. The hematology parameters
evaluated were red blood cell count, white blood cell count,
hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean cell volume, mean cell hemoglobin,
mean cell hemoglobin concentration, differential cell count
(Absolute and Relative), and platelet count.

Blood for clinical chemistry evaluations was collected from the
orbital sinus of all rats on the day of scheduled necropsy. The
following blood chemistry parameters were determined; BUN, SGOT,
SGPT, LDH, Glucose, Creatinine, Total Serum Protein, Albumin,
Globulin (albumin/globulin ratio), GGT, Triglycerides,
Cholesterol and Phospholipids.

6.4.3.4.2.9 Statistical Analysis of Data

Body weight, body weight gain, diet consumption, organ/body
weight, organ/brain weight ratios and clinical pathology data
were statistically analyzed for each sex by treatment group. The
statistical evaluation was made by analysis of variance
techniques. Provided that Bartlett’s test of homogeneity of
variance was not significant, treated groups were compared to the
control group using the least significant difference (LSD)
criterion. If Bartlett’s test was significant, comparisons with
the control group were made by a t-test technique which made
allowance for unequal variances. In this latter case, Wilcoxon’s
rank sum test was also applied. Regression analysis on dose

2190S

OLE9