weights were determined for trimmed lungs, liver, kidneys,
testes, adrenals, spleen, brain and heart.

6.4.3.4.4.7.2 Tissue Collection

Forty tissues were removed from each animal and fixed in a 10%
neutral buffered formalin solution. The remaining tissues were
preserved in a 10% neutral buffered formalin.

6.4.3.4.4.7.3 Histopathology

All respiratory tract and related lymph node tissues obtained
from all animals and all gross lesions suspected to be test
article related were blocked for slides, sections, stained and
submitted for light microscopic examination. In addition, all
forty tissues, from the tissue list, from rats in the air control
and glycerol 0.66 mg/L exposure groups were blocked, sectioned,
stained and submitted for light microscopic examination. All
slides were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Duplicate slides
of lung and trachea from all groups were made and stained with
PAS Alcian Blue to evaluate goblet cell changes.

6.4.3.4.4.8 Hematology and Clinical Chemistry

Hematological evaluations were conducted on all rats in each
treatment group and air control. Blood was collected from the
orbital sinus at scheduled necropsy. The hematology parameters
evaluated were red blood cell count, white blood cell count,
hemoglobin, hematocrit, mean cell volume, mean cell hemoglobin,
mean cell hemoglobin concentration, differential cell count
(Absolute and Relative), and platelet count.

Blood for clinical chemistry evaluations was also collected from
the orbital sinus of all rats on the day of scheduled necropsy.
The following blood chemistry parameters were determined; BUN,
ALT, AST, LDH, Glucose, Creatinine, Total Serum Protein, Albumin,
Globulin (albumin/globulin ratio), GGT, Triglycerides,
Cholesterol and Phospholipids.

6.4.3.4.4.9 Statistical Analysis of Data

Body weight, body weight gain, diet consumption, organ/body
weight and organ/brain weight ratios were statistically analyzed
for each sex by treatment group. The statistical evaluation was
made by analysis of variance techniques. If ANOVA results were
significant, multiple comparisons among group means were made by
the least significant difference (LSD) criterion. All
statistical tests were conducted at a 5% two-sided risk level.

Statistical analysis of treatment-related lesions, including
incidence of lesions and pathological findings were also

Oce9 2190S