five males and five females were removed for health screening two
weeks later. Health screening included: Nasopharyngeal wash
culture, necropsy, limited histopathology, examination for
intestinal parasites and serology tests for antibodies to Sendai
virus, pneumonia virus of mice, Kilham rat virus/H-1 virus, rat
coronavirus/silalodacryoadenitis virus and Mycoplasma pulmonis.
No significant lesions or pathogenic microorganisms were found in
the pre-exposure health evaluations of the shipment of rats
received for this study.

The animals were randomized 2 days before the start of the
exposures using the Xybion Path/Tox software (XYBION Medical
System Corp., Cedarknolls, NJ). Before randomization, the
animals were observed for signs of wheezing, nasal discharge,
shallow/irregular respiration, alopecia, palpable/visible tumors,
listlessness, ataxia, rough haircoat, arched spine, dull/opaque
eyes, or diarrhea. No such signs, nor any other signs suggesting
unsuitability of the animals were observed.

On exposure days, each animal was removed from its cage
compartment, loaded into a polycarbonate restraining tube, and
positioned at its assigned exposure port in the Cannon exposure
system. After all animals were loaded, they were exposed to the
test atmosphere for 6 hours, then returned to their assigned cage
compartments in the housing chambers.

6.4.3.4.3.3 Biological Measurements and Observations
6.4.3.4.3.3.1 Daily Observations of Animals

The daily observations of the animals did not show any physical,

neurological, or behavioral changes attributable to the
exposures.

6.4.3.4.3.3.2 Body Weights

Figure 8 presents the mean body weights as a function of time and
exposure of all glycerol-exposed males and male controls
together. The bars represent one standard error (SE). Figure 9
shows the same data for females.

ANOVA results indicate that group (1, 2 or 4 mg/L) means of the
body weights are not significantly (P < 0.05) different within
each sex of rats exposed to glycerol aerosols. Only the weight
gain mean for the female controls was significantly higher than
the weight gain means for the females exposure to 1, 2 or 4 mg/L
glycerol aerosols. Because this phenomenon was not dose-related
it was concluded by the testing laboratory that it had no
biological significance.

H1E9 1190S