The animals were quarantined for a minimum of two weeks prior to
the initiation of study exposures. On the day of their arrival,
five males plus five females, randomly selected, were removed for
gross necropsy and serology tests. A second randomly selected
five males and five females were removed for health screening two
weeks later. Health screening included: Nasopharyngeal wash
culture, necropsy, limited histopathology, examination for
intestinal parasites and serology tests for antibodies to Sendai
virus, pneumonia virus of mice, Kilham rat virus/H-1 virus, rat
coronavirus/silalodacryoadenitis virus and Mycoplasma pulmonis.
No significant lesions or pathogenic microorganisms were found in
the pre-exposure health evaluations of the shipment of rats
received for this study.

The animals were randomized 2 days before the start of the
exposures using the Xybion Path/Tox software (XYBION Medical
System Corp., Cedarknolls, NJ). Before randomization, the
animals were observed for signs of wheezing, nasal discharge,
shallow/irregular respiration, alopecia, palpable/visible tumors,
listlessness, ataxia, rough haircoat, arched spine, dull/opaque
eyes, or diarrhea. No such signs, nor any other signs suggesting
unsuitability of the animals were observed.

On exposure days, each animal was removed from its cage
compartment, loaded into a polycarbonate restraining tube, and
positioned at its assigned exposure port in the Cannon exposure
system. After all animals were loaded, they were exposed to the
test atmosphere for 6 hours, then returned to their assigned cage
compartments in the housing chambers.

6.4.3.4.5.3 Biological Measurements and Observations
6.4.3.4.5.3.1 Daily Observations of Animals

Twice-daily and detailed monthly clinical observations of the
animals did not show any physical, neurological, or behavioral
changes attributable to the glycerol exposures.

6.4.3.4.5.3.2 Body Weights

Statistical analyses of body weight data indicated no significant
differences among group body weight means for any day for female
rats, but differences were detected for male rats for Days 8, 22,
29, 36, 43, 50, 57 and 64. Male body weights for the low
exposure group (0.033 mg/L) were significantly higher than male
body weights for the control group. Male body weights for the
high exposure group (0.660 mg/L) were also significantly higher
than those for the control animals for Days 36, 43 and 50.

6.4.3. 4. 5.3.3 Diet Consumption

Results of the statistical analysis of diet consumption “indicated
significant differences among group means on only 2 days for

72E9 LLoO¢