lV, Kua ABSTRACT FORM

 

25th Tobacco Chemists Research Conference
Louisville, Kentuck October 6-8, 1971

 

1, Abstract should be not less than 125 words .nor more than 225 words. It should
be included in the space designated below. - oe

“2, Original should be on this form and the original and three copies, carbon or
other type, are requested. (For format, see Sample Abstract enclosed. )

3. Please note: (a) Title is all capitals.
(>) Location follows author name if multiple authors are at

different locations.
(c) Presenting author is underlined.
(a4) Use single spacing.

4, Projection requirements: 3" x 4-1/4" 3 2" x2" Other

 

5. Estimated delivery time: Minutes.
6. Abstract should be received not later than July 23, 1971.

7. Mail original and 3 copies of Abstract to: Dr. Robert C. Benedict, Eastern
Regional Research Laboratories, U.S.D. A., 600 East Mermaid Lane,
Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania 19118 — . os ;

“
,

AUTOMATED METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PLASTICIZERS .
IN CIGARETTE FILTER ROD MATERIAL ; 2

-A. J. Sensabaugh and Kenneth L. Rush, R. J. Reynolds

Tobacco Company, Research Division, 115 Chestnut Street,

- Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 27101 _

An automated method is proposed for the colorimetric determination of triacetin and
riethylene glycol diacetate plasticizers in cellulose acetate cigarette filter rods.

. . N
Should the identity of the plasticizer be unknown, initial testing must include a
simple qualitative analysis by GC. Sample preparation consists of-extraction of (
nlasticizer from the filter material with methanol. Then the reaction of the extracted
Acetate with hydroxylamine, followed by an addition of ferric chloride, yields a
4ferric hydroxamate complex, producing a violet color. The absorption maximum of the
omplex is at 500 nm and follows Beer's Law from 0-800 ug/ml. The optical density range

is 0.00-0.700.

The simplicity of this procedure lends itself well to use with automated instrumenta-
jon. It has*been adapted for use on the Robot Chemist which permits the performance of
-Bnalyses at a rate of 120 per hour, less the standards necessary for a concentration
urve. The method has been shown to work equally well for either triacetin or: triethylene:
hlycol. diacetate, after selection of the appropriate standard for use in construction of
is cs 2

~ ax 7-173"

OfSL SE6OTS

boos,
po
t

'

:

t