Response to Comments Offered by Reviewer #2 in Connection with
"Estimation of the Effect of Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) on the
Air Quality Within Aircraft Cabins"

The following paragraphs respond to comments offered by Reviewer #2 in
connection with Manuscript Number ES8601745.

Comment #1.

Reviewer #2 writes in the first paragraph that the data [contained
in our report] could introduce some solid and scientific numbers into an
otherwise emotional and political public issue. In the second paragraph
the reviewer adds that the authors seemed to be more concerned with
defending the accuracy and integrity of the analytical procedures than
with the conclusions that can be drawn from the work.

Response.

We agree with the reviewer’s comment regarding the emotional and
political aspects of the issue we investigated. We also agree with the
comment dealing with the greater concern indicated for defending our
analytical procedures. In preparing the manuscript, we anticipated the
possibility of emotionalism and politics affecting review, and
consequently we took great effort to ensure that our procedures were
described as completely as practical within the constraints of
maintaining brevity. .

Comment #2.

The reviewer apparently suggests that the manuscript discuss our
results in view of health standards or relevant toxicological
information.

Response.

While we are aware of the TLV for nicotine, we believe that use of
this figure for comparative purposes is inappropriate and potentially
misleading owing to its specific applicability for assessing exposure to
nicotine (exclusive of ETS) in industrial settings. To our knowledge,
the literature is devoid of information relating to either toxicological
or health aspects specific to nicotine at the levels we measured.
Similarly, information relative to ETS (at levels which may be estimated
from our results) exists only in the form of epidemiological studies,
the results of which are ambiguous and consequently highly
controversial. We believe that science is best served by discussing our
results only in the context of estimated exposures. It is our hope that
the results we report will prove useful to researchers investigating the
relation between exposure and dose.

nGb2 629CS

we

ue