L608

Autoradiographs were developed using Kodak X-OMAT AR
film. The relative isoform distribution was quantitated using an
Image Quant laser densitometer.

Two-dimensional peptide mapping of myosin tryptic peptides.
Immunoprecipitate from *2P-labeled cells was dissolved in SDS
sample buffer as above, separated by an 8-15% polyacrylamide
gradient gel, and electrophoresed at 200 V for 4-5 h at 21°C.
The °*P-labeled MLC was cut from the wet gel into small pieces
and washed three times for 30 min with 40% methanol, 10%
acetic acid, and 50% water and then an additional three times
with 10% methanol for the same time period. The washed gel
slices were subsequently dried under nitrogen and then digested
with 1 ml of 60 ug/ml of TPCK-trypsin (Worthington) in 50
mM ammonium bicarbonate at 37°C for 4 h. The digest was
collected and stored at 4°C. The remaining gel was further
digested with 1 ml of 30 yg/ml trypsin for an additional 20 h,
Digests were pooled and lyophilized. Peptides were resuspended
in 1 ml of water and lyophilized.

Digest was resuspended with 30 ul of electrophoresis buffer
(acetic acid:formic acid:water, 9:3:88), spotted on a plastic 20 x
20 x 0.20 mm silica P 60 thin-layer chromatography plate (EM
Science). Peptides were electrophoresed toward the cathode at
900 V at 4°C for 45 min (12). Peptide migration was monitored
by the movement of acid fuschin dye toward the anode. Plates
were then dried and subjected to ascending chromatography
using 1-butanol:acetic acid:pyridine:water (49:8:38:30). Plates
were then dried, wrapped in cellophane, and autoradiographs
were developed using Kodak X-Omat AR film.

In vitro phosphorylation assays. Standards for tryptic peptide
maps of MLC were generated in vitro from turkey gizzard MLC
or platelet MLC phosphorylated with either smooth muscle
MLCK(,or rat brain protein kinase C (PKC). Phosphorylation of
MLC by MLCK was carried out in a volume of 200 yl using 20
mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.6), 5 mM MgCl, 200 »M CaCl, 1 mM
[y-22P]ATP (400-1,000 cpm/pmol), 2 »M calmodulin, 7 »g/ml
smooth muscle MLCK, and 3.25 mg/ml turkey gizzard smooth
muscle MLC or 50 ug/ml human platelet MLC. The reaction
was initiated with ATP at 25°C for 10 min and terminated by
precipitating the assay mixture with 40 yl 100% trichloroacetic
acid (TCA). Samples were microcentrifuged, and the precipitate
was washed three times with 1 ml of 10% TCA. The pellet was
resuspended with 200 ul of SDS-sample buffer and 0.1% brom-
phenol blue and made alkaline with 1 N NaOH.

Phosphorylation of MLC by PKC was carried out in a final
volume of 400 ul using 20 mM Tris-HCl (pH 7.6), 5 mM MgCl,
200 uM CaClo, 1 mM [y-22P]ATP (400-1,000 cpm/pmol), 50
ug/ml phosphatidylserine, 0.8 wg/ml of 1,3 diolein, and 2.7
ug/ml of PKC at 30°C for 60 min. Phospholipids were stored in
chloroform and evaporated under a constant stream of nitrogen.
Phospholipids were then resuspended in Tris buffer and soni-
cated at 4°C for 5 min using a Branson 200 sonicator. The
reaction was initiated with the labeled ATP.

Calewlating the stoichiometry of MLC phosphorylation. Quan-
titative phosphorylation of MLC was determined using laser
densitometry of autoradiographs made from the two-dimen-
sional gels of 9°S-labeled MLC immunoprecipitated from the
cells, There were two phosphorylated isoforms of MLC (desig-
nated A and B) and each phosphorylated isoform could exist as
an unphosphorylated (A or B), monophosphorylated (A’ or B’),
or diphosphorylated (A” or B’) isoform. The light intensity of
each phosphorylation state of each isoform was integrated on
the densitometer. The light intensity of each phosphorylation
state for each of the isoforms was then expressed as a fraction
(fxn) of the total for that isoform, for example

en LI(A)
Fraction A = LI(A) + LI(A’?) + LI(A’)

 

MYOSIN AND ENDOTHELIAL RETRACTION

where LI is light intensity. Fractions for B isoforms were cal-
culated similarly. Phosphorylation stoichiometry was then cal-
culated by the following formula

mol phosphate/mol of isoform A = Fzn A’ + 2x Fxn A” and

mol phosphate/mol isoform B = Fxn B’ + 2 x Fxn B”

Statistical analysis. Data are reported as means + SE. Com-
parisons between two groups were made using the Student’s ¢
test. Comparisons between more than two groups were made
using analysis of variance and individual groups comparisons
were done using a Tukey highly significant difference test for
post hoc comparisons of means. Differences were considered
significant at the P < 0.05 level.

RESULTS

Tryptie peptide mapping. We previously reported that
MLCK mediates basal and histamine stimulated phos-
phorylation of MLC in HUVE cells (18). In these experi-
ments we found that MLCK also mediates basal phos-
phorylation of MLC in PPAE cells. Figure 1
demonstrates that the tryptic peptide map of MLC from
PPAE cells is similar to the map of MLC phosphorylated
in vitro by MLCK, but is not similar to the map of MLC
phosphorylated in vitro by PKC. The activity at the ori-
gin in the PPAE cells represents peptide diphosphory-
lated on ser! and thr!® and some undigested peptide
which we and others have described in other cells (8, 12,
18). Hence, the tryptic peptide maps indicated that MLC
was constitutively phosphorylated by MLCK,in both
HUVE and PPAE cells and by MLCK in histamine
stimulated HUVE cells.

Stoichiometry of phosphorylation and effects on retrac-
tion. MLCK can be inhibited by phosphorylation with
the cAMP-dependent kinase or by exposure to ML-9, a
kinase inhibitor with selective specificity for MLCK (5, 7,
10). As we previously observed, histamine increases MLC
phosphorylation in HUVE cells by activation of MLCK
(18). Pretreatment with forskolin-aminophylline or
ML-9 for 10 min prevented this increase in MLC phos-
phorylation (Fig. 2). Forskolin-aminophylline and ML-9
were equally effective at inhibiting MLC phosphorylation
in response to histamine.

We measured the change in permeability of monolayers
of HUVE cells to dextran as an index of cell retraction in
response to histamine. Pretreatment of HUVE cell mono-
layers with forskolin-aminophylline or with ML-9 pre-
vented the cell retraction seen with histamine alone
(Fig. 3).

EGTA did not change constitutive MLC phosphoryla-
tion (Con) in PPAK cells (Con 0.37 + 0.02, EGTA 0.33 +
0.02 mol phosphate/mol MLC). Pretreatment of PPAE
cells for 10 or 30 min with forskolin-aminophylline or
with ML-9 reduced constitutive phosphorylation of MLC
to 0.09 + 0.03 and 0.06 + 0.04 mo! phosphate/mole MLC,
respectively (Fig. 4).

We also measured the permeability of PPAE cell mono-
layers to dextran as an index of cell retraction in response
to chelation of extracellular calcium with EGTA. Pre-
treatment of PPAE cells with forskolin-aminophyiline or
ML-9. prevented the cell retraction seen with EGTA
alone (Fig. 5). In contrast, pretreatment of PPAE cell