L610

Con cAMP

moles P/m MLC

con MI-o

Fig, 4. Phosphorylation of MLC (mol P/m MLC) in PPAE cells in
control state and after treatment with forskolin-aminophylline (2 x
10-5 M and 1.2 x 10-3 M, cAMP) or after treatment with ML-9 (6 x
10-5M) for 10 min. cAMP and ML-9 decreased mol P/mol MLC, P<
0.05. MLC phosphorylation in PPAE ceils exposed to cAMP or ML-9
for 30 min was not different from that in cells exposed for 10 min (data
not shown) (n 2 10 monolayers for each group).

ow a
pb &

eeepe
mh @

bs

GTA cAMP-EGTA

Change in permeability

 

2 = x

°o an y a an wot
9
a
a
m

MI-9-EGTA

g

EGTA

Fig. 5. Change in permeability to dextran of monolayers of PPAE cells
exposed to control medium (Con), to EGTA (2 x 10-3 M, EGTA), or to
EGTA after pretreatment for 10 min with forskolin-aminophylline (2 x
10-5 M and 1.2 x 10-8 M, cAMP-EGTA) or ML-9 (ML-9-EGTA). P<
0.05 for EGTA vs. both other groups {n = 12 for each group).

In the experiments described in this paper we did not
address which of these paradigms is dominant. However,
in both paradigms a centripetal tension is necessary for
cell retraction to occur. In these experiments we have
asked whether phosphorylation of MLC is necessary for
cell retraction to occur.

In both HUVE and PPAE cells we found that MLC
was phosphorylated by MLCK. The activity of MLCK is
inhibited when it has been phosphorylated by the cAMP-
dependent kinase. Consistent with this, we found that
forskolin-aminophyiline decreased basal and histamine-
stimulated MLC phosphorylation in both HUVE cells

MYOSIN AND ENDOTHELIAL RETRACTION

and PPAE cells (5, 7, 10). ML-9 is a kinase inhibitor that
acts by competing with ATP for binding to the kinase.
MLCK is 1-1.5 logs more sensitive to ML-9 than are the
cAMP-dependent kinase or a protein kinase C (10).
ML-9 also decreased basal and histamine-stimulated
MLC phosphorylation in both HUVE and PPAE cells.

We stimulated HUVE cells to retract by exposing them
to histamine, and we stimulated PPAE cells to retract by
chelating extracellular calcium. Both ML-9 and activa-
tion of the cAMP-dependent kinase were effective at pre-
venting cell retraction in response to histamine and in
response to chelation of extracellular calcium.

Although we know that histamine increases MLC
phosphorylation in HUVE cells, we do not know whether
histamine causes HUVE cell retraction by increasing cen-
tripetal tension alone or by increasing centripetal tension
and by reducing tethering (18). Increased cAMP inhib-
ited MLC phosphorylation in response to histamine, and
if MLC phosphorylation contributes to centripetal ten-
sion, cAMP prevented an increase in tension. A decreased
level of tension could prevent retraction in response to
histamine. However, in addition to increasing tension,
histamine may also reduce tethering. The cAMP-depen-
dent kinase might act on parts of the cytoskeleton, other
than MLC, prevent the loss of tethering, and thereby
prevent the retraction in response to histamine. Hence,
although the effects of increased cAMP are consistent
with the hypothesis that MLC phosphorylation is impor-
tant for histamine-mediated cell zetraction, it was neces-
sary to exanrine other systems to he more certain.

Chelation of extracellular calcium interrupts tethering
of cells to substrate and to adjacent cells by breaking the
calcium-dependent binding of cell receptors to their ap-
propriate ligand (1). In our experiments, increased cAMP
prevented PPAE cell retraction in response to chelating
calcium. Although cAMP might have acted on the cyto-
skeleton to block a histamine-mediated decrease in teth-
ering, it is very unlikely that it could prevent calcium
chelation from severing the calcium-dependent binding of
receptor and ligand. However, the reduction in MLC
phosphorylation by cAMP could have prevented retrac-
tion by reducing the constitutive centripetal tension.

Because the cAMP-dependent kinase may have effects
on the cytoskeleton in addition to inhibition of MLC
phosphorylation, we also examined the effects of the ki-
nase inhibitor, ML-9 on cell retraction in response to
both stimuli. ML-9 prevented retraction and MLC phos-
phorylation in both cell types. Although MLCK is 1-1.5
logs more sensitive to ML-9, higher doses of ML-9 can
inhibit the cAMP-dependent kinase. Since activation of
the cAMP-dependent kinase inhibited retraction of both
cell types to both stimuli, it is unlikely that inhibition of
the cAMP-dependent kinase by ML-9 accounts for the
ability of ML-9 to preven’. the retraction of HUVE or
PPAE cells.

Higher doses of ML-9 can also inhibit protein kinase C.
Activation of protein kinase C actually reduces the per-
meability of HUVE cell monolayers (31, D. M. Shasby,
unpublished data). Hence, it is not likely that ML-9 in-
hibition of protein kinase C accounts for the ability of