Role of myosin light-chain phosphorylation in endothelial

cell retraction

REBECCA SHELDON, ALAN MOY, KATHY LINDSLEY,
SANDRA SHASBY, AND D. MICHAEL SHASBY
Department of Medicine, University of Iowa College of Medicine
and the Veterans Administration Hospital, Iowa City, lowa 52242

Sheldon, Rebecca, Alan Moy, Kathy Lindsley, Sandra
Shasby, and D. Michael Shasby. Role of myosin light-chain
phosphorylation in endothelial cell retraction. Am. J, Physiol.
265 (Lung Cell. Mol. Physiol. 9): L606-L612, 1993.—
Endothelial cells retract centripetally when they are exposed to
histamine and when extracellular calcium is chelated. This cen-
tripetal retraction implies that a centripetal tension must be
expressed in the cells. We asked whether phosphorylation of the
light chain of myosin (MLC) was important for the retraction to
occur, and, by inference, expression of the tension. In human
umbilical vein endothelial (HUVE) cells and in porcine pulmo-
nary artery endothelial (PPAE) cells tryptic peptide maps in-
dicated that MLC was phosphorylated by myosin light-chain
kinase (MLCK). Activity of MLCK is inhibited by ML-9, a
kinase inhibitor with relative specificity for MLCK, and when
MLCK is phosphorylated by the adenosine 3',5'-cyclic mono-
phosphate (cAMP)-dependent kinase. Pretreatment of HUVE
cells or PPAE cells with ML-9 or forskolin-aminophylline (to
increase cell cAMP) reduced basal MLC phosphorylation and
prevented an expected increase in MLC phosphorylation fol-
lowing exposure of HUVE cells to histamine. Pretreatment of
HUVE cells with MU-9 or forskolin-aminophylline prevented
HUVE cell retraction (measured as an increase in permeability
of a monolayer of HUVE cells) in response to histamine. Pre-
treatment of PPAE cells with ML-9 or forskolin-aminophylline
prevented PPAE cell retraction in response to chelation of ex-
tracellular calcium. These data support the hypothesis that
phosphorylation of MLC is an important component of endo-
thelial cell retraction.

tension; substrate adherence; calcium

INFLAMMATORY EDEMA is associated with separation of
adjacent endothelial cells (2, 4, 15, 17, 19, 24, 25, 28).
Although there are multiple reports documenting this,
the mechanism of cell separation is not well explained.

Agents that chelate calcium and interrupt calcium-
dependent cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion cause
edema and separation of adjacent endothelial cells (19,
25). These observations suggest that separation may re-
sult from loss of tethering between cells and between
cells and substrate. They also imply that a constitutive
centripetal tension opposes the tethering, and unop-
posed expression of this constitutive tension contributes
to cell retraction when the tethering is released.

Other investigators have suggested that the separa-
tion of adjacent endothelial cells involves initiation or
augmentatios of a centripetal tension that is mediated
by actin and myosin (22, 29). This position is based on
the observation that 100 uM calcium, ATP, myosin
light-chain kinase (MLCK), and calmodulin caused
phosphorylation of the light chain of myosin (MLC) and
contraction of the actin cytoskeleton of endothelial cells
after their cell membranes were removed with detergents
(22, 29, 30).

L606

We previously observed that histamine caused retrac-

- tion of human umbilical vein endothelial (HUVE) cells,

that this was prevented by pretreatment of the cells with
agents that increased cell adenosine 3',5'-cyclic mono-
phosphate (cAMP), and that the increased cAMP did
not prevent histamine from increasing calcium in the
HUVE cells (4). More recently we found that MLCK
constitutively phosphorylates MLC in HUVE cells (0.21
+ 0.02 mol phosphate/mol MLC), that histamine in-
creases MLC phosphorylation (0.19 + 0.05 mol
phosphate/mol MLC), and that cAMP reduces the con-
stitutive level of phosphorylation (to 0.06 + 0.02 mol
phosphate/mol MLC) and prevents the increase in
phosphorylation expected after histamine exposure (18).
Although these experiments were consistent with the
idea that cAMP prevented the response to histamine by
preventing MLC‘ phosphorylation, activation of the
cAMP-dependent kinase could also have other effects on
the cytoskeleton of the cells that might contribute to
inhibition of retraction. In the experiments described
in this paper we extend these observations by deter-
mining the effects of inhibition of MLC phosphoryla-
tion by two very different mechanisms on the retrac-
tion of endothelial cells in response to an increase in
centripetal tension (histamine) and to a loss of tether-
ing (calcium chelation).

METHODS

Materials. Tissue culture supplies were obtained from the
Cancer Center, University of Iowa. Fetal bovine serum was
obtained from Hyclone, Logan, UT. Polyclonal rabbit immuno-
globulin G antimyosin antibody against human platelet myosin
was obtained from Biomedical Technologies, Stoughton, Ma.
Protein A, Staphylococcus aureus cell suspension, and rat brain
protein kinase C were obtained from Calbiochem, San Diego,
Ca. Histamine, aminophylline, forskolin, 1-(5-chloronaptha-
lene-1-sulfonly!) -1H-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine (ML-9), 1-(5-iso-
quinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methyl-piperazine) (H-7), Di-histidine,
Di-glutamie acid, ethylene glycol-bis($-aminoethyl ether)-
N,N,N',N’-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), phosphoserine, and phos-
phothreonine were obtained from Sigma Chemical, Si. Louis,
MO. TPCK trypsin was from Worthington. [°*Pjorthophos-
phate and [y-"2P]ATP were obtained from New England
Nuclear, Boston, MA. [2°S]methionine was obtained from ICN,
Irvine, Ca. Transwells were purchased through Costar, Cam-
bridge, MA. Smooth muscle myosin light-chain kinase (MLCK)
and turkey gizzard MLC were gifts from Dr. James Selle,
National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. All other chemicals”
were reagent grade.

Cell culturing. Cultured HUVE cells were prepared by colla-
genase treatment of freshly obtained umbilical veins as de-
scribed (4). Cultured porcine pulmonary artery endothelial
(PPAE) cells were obtained by scraping freshly obtained por-
cine pulmonary artery as described (25). Harvested cells were