a process involving multiple integrins (11,12), Prior to adding PMA, ED mutant cells and control FM
cells adhered to the dishes and appeared round and refractile (Fig.2 FM-Con, ED-Con). Upon adding
PMA, FM control cells spread out and became extremely flat within 10 min (Fig. 2, FM-PMA).

: 7 However, the ED mutant
cells remained round and
refractile (Fig. 2, ED-
PMA), indicating that
MacMARCKS mutation
blocked this integrin-

Fig, 2. dependent cellular process.
Another {2 integrin-dependent event we tested is the Fc receptor-mediated cel] spreading on

immune complex-coated surface (13). The FM control J774 cells adhered to and spread out on this
surface within 15 min after its addition to this surface, showing a typical fried egg shape (Fig. 3FM). But

: ED mutant cells failed to spread despite
weakly adhering to this surface (Fig. 3ED).
Anti-B2 integrin antibody (2E6) blocked
J774 cells spreading on this surface,

; indicating it is indeed a B2 integrin-

Fig. 3. dependent process (data not shown).

 

  
  

3. MacMARCKS mutation blocks 62 integrin activation

More direct evidence that MacMARCKS participates in integrin-dependent macrophage function
was obtained by examining the direct interaction of integrin with its ligand. Macrophages form rosettes
with complement iC3b-coated sheep erythrocytes (EiC3b) through its complement receptor 3 (omb2,
CR3), a member of the 82 integrin family. To determine the effect of MacMARCKS mutant on integrin-
mediated ligand binding, E(C3b were incubated with FM control and ED mutant cells for 30 min. No
rosettes formed in the absence of PMA Cig’ 4, FM). be adding PMA for 25 min, all FM control cells

were heavily rosetted with EIC3b (Fig. 4,

FM-PMA). In contrast, ED mutant cells
showed minimum binding to EIC3b even
with PMA stimulation (Fig. 4, ED-PMA).
Thus, MacMARCKS is likely to an be
essential component in integrin activation.

  

Fig. 4.

4, MacMARCKS mutation blocks the tyrosine phosphorylation of cytoskeleton protein Paxillin

One of the major signal transduction events of integrin activation is the enhanced tyrosine
phosphorylation of paxillin (6). To further evaluate the possible mechanism of MacMARCKS function
in integrin-dependent cellular events, we examined whether the integrin-dependent tyrosine
phosphorylation of paxillin was disrupted by MacMARCKS mutation and whether it correlates with
the physiological phenotype described above.

Paxillin was immunoprecipitated with anti-paxillin antibody from cells treated with above-
described assays. The tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin was detected with anti-phosphotyrosine
antibody. While PMA stimulated macrophage spreading, it also stimulated an enhanced tyrosine
phosphorylation of paxillin in FM control cells, Whereas only trace amount of tyrosine phosphorylation

40037987