of paxillin was detected in ED mutant cells after PMA stimulation (Fig. 5A), consistant with its
incapability of spreading. Furthermore, when J774 cells-E'C3b rosettes were formed upon PMA
treatment, an enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin was also detected in FM control cells (Fig.
5B). Without PMA, the presence of EiC3b alone was not sufficient to induce the enhanced tyrosine
phosphorylation of paxillin (Fig. 5B) nor the rosette formation in FM control cells. The ED mutant cells
did not show any tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin even in the presence of PMA (Fig. 5B).
A. PMA-Gtimulated Spreading B, cae nt gnu eo C. immune Complex Previous reports
say, FH ED Fab ED pata ef EOP. ED. have shown that tyrosine

Blot: 4G10 ces ot 4a10 phosphorylation of paxillin
Fa ED Fal ED Fi ED induced by immune
nisin” complex-coated surface is a
#3 inintninial -.. B2 integrin-dependent
© PRESS process in neutrophils
ae... (13,14). Our experiments

Biot: 4610 showed that it is also true
BE oes.

a ..:: ie vin. 5. in J774 macrophages,

8 because antibody against B2
integrin (2E6) can block J774 cells from spreading on immune complcx-coated surface (data not shown)
and paxillin phosphorylation (Fig. 5C). In addition, our experiments showed that inhibiting PKC with
staurosporin also blocked the spreading on the immune complex-coated surface (data not shown) as well
as tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin (Fig. 5C), further suggesting involvement of PKC in macrophage
response to immune complex. Similarly, expression of ED mutant of MacMARCKS also abolished the
tyrosine phosphorylation of paxillin induced by immune complex-coatcd surface (Fig. 5C), again
correlating with its incapability to spread on this surface.

     

5. Expression of MacMARCKS restored [2 integrin activation MacMARCKS-deficient cells,

To address the question whether MacMARCKS is essential for B2 integrin activation, we
expressed MacMARCKS in MacMARCKS-deficient cells. We found a monocytic cell line, Wehi 274.1,
which expresses the 62 integrin on its surface and yet incapable of being activated (ATCC CRL-1679).
Concomitantly, these cells do not express detectable amounts of MacMARCKS, even with LPS
induction (Fig. 6A). Therefore, wild type MacMARCKS was expressed in the subclone Wehi 274.1.7
cells (Fig. 6B). We also determined that there is no difference in the expression of B2 integrin in Vec
control cells and MacMARCKS-expressing cells (data not shown).

It has been suggested by the reviewers that we should measure 62 integrin activation by its
adhesion to ICAM-1 coated surface, which is the natural ligand for 2 integrin as more physiologically
relavant assay. We have now adopted this assay system.

Vector control and MacMARCKS
transfected Wehi 274.1.7 cells were tested for
their ability to adhere to ICAM-1 upon PMA
stimulation. When B2 integrin was not
activated by PMA, neither of two cell types
adhered to ICAM-1 coated surface. Whereas
when the cells were treated with PMA to

7 activate B2 integrin, MacMARCKS
Fig. 6. BSMPMA ICRIET+ FMA ICANT noPAA weet cells showed a 3.5 fold increase in

 

40037988