Introduction:

Macrophage phagocytosis requires efficient signal transduction from the phagocytic receptors to
the actin-based cytoskeleton (1). The signals that induce actin-cytoskeleton rearrangements and the
mechanism of such a rearrangement are not yet known. One of the signal molecules is protein kinase C
(PKC). Activation of PKC with phorbol esters profoundly enhances phagocytosis (2,3). However, little
is known about the events after PKC activation, nor is it known how the PKC signal is transduced to the
cytoskeleton to initiate the internalization of particles. One approach to these questions is to investigate
the role of PKC substrates in these processes.

Among the PKC substrates, the MARCKS (mmyristoylated glanine-rich C kinase substrate) and
MacMARCKS has received much attention. MacMARCKS was so named because of its enrichment in
activated-macrophages (4). Both MARCKS/MacMARCKS are membrane-associated, actin-binding
proteins. These two proteins share an almost identical domain that contains PKC-phosphorylation sites
and calmodulin- and actin-binding sites. This domain is named effector domain and deletion of this
domain generated a dominant negative mutant of MacMARCKS (5).

The cellular function of MARCKS/MacMARCKS was unknown. This grant is proposed to
study the potential function of MacMARCKS, in macrophage phagocytosis.

1. MacMARCKS mutation blocks macrophage phagocytosis:
We have reported that MacMARCKS plays an important role in macrophage phagocytosis (5).
This was demonstrated by expressing the effector domain deletion mutate (ED, a dominant negative
i a mutate) of MacMARCKS in J774
j on macrophage cells, which dramtically
inhibited macrophage phagocytosis. For
comparison, full-length MacMARCKS
; os i : (FM) were also transfected into 774 cells.
925458 /6864142 349448/608t87 1684537114 The control cells, as well as parental J774
Phagocytic Index / Attachment Index (+ SD, n=3) cells (J774), showed normal phagocytic

Fig. 1. activity.

  

2. MacMARCKS blocks integrin-dependent function, phagocytosis is one of them.

We then started to explore the mechanism by which MacMARCKS mutation inhibited
phagocyotisis. The first target examined was the F-actin formation during macrophage phagocytosis.
Although MacMARCKS mutant-expressing cells can not phagocytose zymosan particles, it is still
capable of binding the particles. In many instance we can observe that actin polymerized near this
particles, in the same manner as the control cells. Thus it is very unlikely that MacMARCKS mutation
has seriously impaired F-actin formation.

At the same time we found that MacMARCKS mutation not only affect macrophage
phagocytosis but also other 62 integrin-dependent cellular functions.

Activation of 82 integrin is essential to many leukocyte functions including chemotaxing and
phagocytosis (6,7,8). The activation of protein kinase C (PKC) is an essential step for the activation of
B2 integrin (reviewed in 9,10) in most integrin-mediated cellular functions. However, it is not clear how
PKC is integrated into the integrin-dependent signal transduction pathway, nor do we know the
candidates that are phosphorylated by PKC and transduce the phosphorylation signals.

Therefore we hypothesized that MacMARCKS may control phagoyctosis through its regulation
of B2 integrin, because phagocytosis is part of the functions of [2 integrin in many cases.

We first tested the effect of MacMARCKS mutation on PMA-stimulated macrophage spreading,

40037986