-2-

Another serles of cigarettes was also prepared containing KF tobacco with
a 40 mm cacao bean hull filter. The pH measurement of these 85 mm cigarettes
against a straight KF control Is shown In Table I1.

 

TABLE II
pH OF CACAO BEAN HULL CIGARETTES
Analysis KF control KF with fitter
pH, V min 6.44 5.43
pH, V max 7.12 6.3
rod p.d., Inches 3.1 1.7
filter p.d., Inches - 1.5
overall p.d., Inches 3.1 3.2
puff count 5.5 5.5

Within the scope of this Invention, It Is visualized that the cacao
bean hull or testa, may be used as a selective fliter for nicotine and similar
alkaloids In the smoke of tobacco materlals. It Is visualtzed that the fllter
may be either raw hulls, hulls formed Into sheets, or hulls In some other
conventent form. It is further visualized that the filter may be effective In
all types of smoking products whlch Incorporate nicotine alkaloids, whether
tobacco materials, synthetic or other materlals.

By way of example, but not as a limitation, It is visuallzed that cacao
bean hull fllters may be used, rather than pretreatment of the tobacco with
conventional denicotinization processes, for nicotine removal.

As another example, It Is visualized that a selective filter for nicotine
will allow the study of thls alkaloid to a degree not easily obtainable before,
and that cigarettes may be prepared with a wide varlety of desIrable properties.
In addition, a study of the mechanism of this nicotine filtration should be very
rewarding In terms of the overall! knowledge of flltratlon mechanisms and aerosol
properties.

Other advantages and uses wil! be obvious to those skilled In the art.

Auta Derenio Bl my TU
Calvin L. Neumann Date

Distribution:

 

Dr. Murray Senkus, Or. C. E. Teague, Jr., Dr. H. J. Bluhm (file)

Dr. A. H. Laurene, Mr. J. A. Giles, Or. A. Rodgman, Dr. D. H. Pleh!l (ftle)
Dr. W. M. Henley

Dr. C. L. Neumann

Dr. J. D. Woods

Library (2)._ S-19-83

Submitted: May 28, 1974 Read and understood by me

Completed: May 31, 1974
From manuscript:mm 3ls 7
néss St, }
Wing hor bus Mss 2119 2Y

Alo rama

OLS8 9LhOS