Principal Investigator/Program Director {Lest, first, middie): CAPLAN, AVROM J, |

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH
Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal
investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.
— TPOSIIONTTLE 2
Assistant Professor 7°

          
  
 
 
 

NAME
Avrom J. Caplan

 

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education, such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.)

YEAR
DEGREE CONFERRED

  
   
   
  
  
         
    
   

   
   
  
  

  
   
  
 

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION FIELD OF STUDY
Sussex University, Brighton, England BSc. 1978 Biology
University College, University of London, England MSc. 1983 Biochemistry
Kings College, University of London, England PhD. 1987 Biochemistry -
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas Tx. Postdoc. molecular genetics
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC Postdoc. molecular genetics

RESEARCH AND/OR PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Coneluding with present position, list in chronological order previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include tha principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project. Key
personnel typically will Include ail individuals with doctoral or other professional degrees, but in some projects will include individuals al the masters or
baccalaureate level provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific velopment or execution of the project. include present membership on any
Federal Government public advisory committee. Liat, in shron ological order, the tiles, all authors, and complete references {o ail publications during the past
three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent fo this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Professional Experience:

1983 - 1986 Research Assistant and part time Graduate Student, Department of Biophysics, Kings
College, University of London, London England (Advisor: Dr. J. Allan)

1986 - 1987 Full time Graduate Student, Department of Biophysics, Kings College, University of
London, London England (Advisor : Dr. J. Allan)

1987-1989 Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biochemistry, Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas,
TX. (Sponsor: Dr. W.T. Garrard)

1989-1993 Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of North
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC. (Sponsor: Dr. M.G. Douglas)

1993-present Assistant Professor, Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, NY.

Honors and Awards:
SERC studentship: 1986-1987
Welch Postdoctoral Fellowship: 1988-1989
Alexandrine and Alexander Sinsheimer Award: 1995-1998

—  —_rrrrr————S—
PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91) (Form Page 6) Page __7 FF
Number pages consecutively at the bottom throughout the application. Do nof use suffixes such as 3a, 3b.