48 ISSUES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

tions simulating human smoking as closely as possible. it should meet
the following requirements:

l.It must produce smoke by intermittent puffing of
individual cigarettes? with accurate, and reproducibie puff
volumes. puff durations. and puff intervals, all regulated to fall
within the range of human smoking mechanics as determined by

- observation of human smokers, smoking normally. The conven-
tions most generally adopted at present are a 35 ml. puff of two
second duration, taken at one-minute intervals, to 2 23 mi. butt
length. The machine should, however, have the capability for
accurate modification of these puffing conditions in order to
extend the range of possible observations.

2.It should have a port to permit sampling of the smoke
stream for chemical or gas chromatographic analysis, when
desired. se

3.In order to permit biological comparisons of gas-phase
effects with those of whole smoke, the machine should permit
insertion of a Cambridge filter to remove particulate material
from the smoke and allow only the gas-vapor phase to reach the

_ animals. °

4. Since human smokers draw a puff of smoke into the
mouth and then inhale it into the lung along with fresh air, the
smoke must be-diluted by air in a ratio determined by human
experience. The ratio of dilution by human smokers is deter-
mined by the individual's puff volume (15 ml. to 45 ml.) and his
tidal volume. These vary so that the ratio of dilution may range
from 1:4 to 2:40 at the extremes. Mechanical devices need to be
adjustable over such a range as this so that the ratio will be
known in any individual experiment and can be varied.

5. The time of smoke transit from the burning zone of the
cigarette to the lung surface must be close to that which occurs in
human smoking (or within the range) so that the smoke will be of
comparable age in terms of fractions of a second. This age control
is to insure that chemical and physical changes such as are known
to occur rapidly in smoke after its instant of formation will.be
comparable for the anima] and man. Such age control is usually
achieved by regulating the distance from the burning zone of the

Under special, carefully controlied conditions, two or three cigarettes may be
puffed simultaneousty. . - : -

 

 

 

1
~, net
a4
= ~
mY
oe

!

1

.