36 ooo me. ISSUES ‘CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

time to protect them against challenges beyond their Capacity, or,

. better, to fortify those -adaptive Capacities against Premature break.

down. This goal does not diminish emphasis upon the need for placing
reasonable controls upon the challenges of the environment, tut it does
impose the additional. task of describing the role of. many bodily
functions in dealing with the vast number of inescapable environmental
agents and influences, .

Of carbohydrates ai2@ sometimes managed by reducing the load his
Metabolic machinery is called upon ty handle, and sometimes by
bolstering his available insulin Supply, or by both. Another illustration
is the congenital glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenese deficiency réspon-
sible for the conditian known as “favism”, that develops when Persons
deficient in this enzyme consume fava beans. The same beaus are eaten
with impunity by persons with a “normal” enzyme component.
Obviously, if fava beans were investigated by the health authorities of a
kingdom where the enzyme deficiency was universal, they would be
Tated as Poisonous, whereas in a kingdom of normal persons they would
be rated as wholesome and nourishing. Thus, Lueretius’ dictum of two
thousand years ago has been verified: “What is quite literally food to
one man may be fierce Poison to.others.”

The Significance. of this enzyme deficiency extends beyond the
Matter of fava beans, since it also influences the effects of certain drugs

used in areas where fava beans are unknown. I am not aware of any

method for offsetting deficiencies in this enzyme, and have the impres.
sion that in this case the only recourse is avoidance of agents that the

deficient Patient cannot handle,

The Counci? Approach

All the foregaing has been mentioned here to explain the philo
sophical atmosphere in which the program of the Council is being
Planned an Carried out. It emphasizes etiology of the diseases that have
been mentioned and it places Seat attention upon Congential and