OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH 47

APPENDIX
Requirements for any Mechanical Arrangement for ‘Exposure of Animals

to the Inhalation of Cigarette Smoke under Conditions
Comparable to those of Human Smoke Exposure

For the past 15 years, the Council for Tobacco Research—
U.S.A.’ has been concerned with the proper bioassay methods for
tobacco smoke inhalation research. The scientific staff recommends

_ that the following factors be considered when using an animal model.

First and foremost, meaningful data can only be obtained ifthe -

” whole smoke delivered to the lungs of the animal is in the same physical

and chemical state as that which reaches the respiratory tract of the ~~

human during normal cigarette smoking. Since most animals cannot be
made to conform spontaneously to such conditions, the smoke for
inhalation by animals must generally be produced by mechanical means **
and delivered to the animal under the right conditions. ~

In order to accomplish this, it js necessary to ust 4 mechanical

device—a smoke inhalation exposure machine—that will produce condi-

3The Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA., Inc. is the sponsaming sgency ofa
program of research into questions of tobacco use and health. Et was organized
early in 1954 by representatives of tobacco manufacturers, gr@wess, and ware-
housemen. Research support has been mainly through a program of grants-in-aid

supplemented by contracts for research with institutions and laboratories.

A Scientific Advisory Board, currendy consisting of ten scientists and physicians
who maintain their respective institutional affiliations, has full responsibility for
research policy and programming. As a Board it does not dimectly engage in
research for The Council, nor does The Council itself operame any research
facility. ; :

Since its beginning, The Council particularly has sought to support research which
would idesafy and define the factor of factors which may be uinvolved in the
causation of certain chronic diseases that have peen statisucally associated with
cigarette smoking among other factors. The Council has necessarily, therefore,
been especially concerned with the evology of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and
chronic respiratory diseases.

Grants-in-axd. for research are made by the Board to independext scientists who
are assured complete scientific freedom in conducting their research. Grantees
alone are responsible for reporting oF publishing their findings in the accepted
scientific manner—through medical and scientific journals and seocieties.

Comments in this paper are those of Dr. Hockett and do not mecessarily reflect
the opinions of the Scientific Advisory Board.