44 ISSLES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

- death were observed. A less comprehensive study of American twins
pointed in the same direction.
At present there are two outstanding needs in our coronary
dissas? study program. First. is 2 good method for the controlled
; production of coronary atherosclerosis in some experimental animal. :
oa The lesions should be comparable to those found in man, anatomically
and histologically, and should be produced by methods not too
“contrived” or “unghysiological”. If the condition could be produced
at will and with predictable severity, then the influence of many
envyomnental factors, including smoke exposure and nicotine, could be
tudied systematically.

Of course, attempts have been made to measure the condition of
human coronary arteries post mortem and relate severity of the lesions
to environmental factors during life. It is very difficult to get accurate
data on habits suck as smoking, diet, exercise, etc., retrospectively,
after the death of a patient. Yet the most random post mortem
samplings of the healthy human population are probably those }
provided: by accidents, especially automobile accidents. Several studies
of accident victims have reported no relation between the degree of
atherosclerosis and amount of smoking.?? But the difficulties of such
huszan studies recoramend the concurrent use of an animal model for
expediting systematic attack on the problem.

Another key problem, still unsolved, is that of measuring with
accuracy the relative rates and amounts of nicotine absorption into the |
body by smokers of cigarettes, pipes, and cigars, respectively, under j
real-life conditions. as well as the rates of disposal and metabolic change }
of this alkaloid under these conditions. A knowledge of the kinetic i
pattern should solve the question of whether there are significant differ- |
ences in the nicotine dosage of smokers in these three categories when
smoking in the normal fashion. This is most important to know because |
pipe and cigar smokers are reported to develop coronary artery disease i
no oftener than non-smokers.?° If it should tum out that they absorb f

a
|
i

 

ee et ee ewe ee

as much nicotine as cigarette smokers, and attain similar peak levels in
the blood, of comparable duration, it would seem to follow that

338. Viel. 5. Conoso, and D. Saledo. “Coronary Atherosclerosis in Persons Dying
Violenuly,” Archives of Inrernal Medicine, 122: 1968, p. 69.

32 Department of Health, Education and Welfare. Smoking and Health, Report of
the Adzuory Committee to the Surgcon-General, USPHS Publication No. 1103
Washineton, D.C., 1964, Chapter 8, p. 23.

—-- — -- et ARR

 

> .

 

Sande Sreaet