-o-

 

42 ISSUES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY _

phagocytic capacities of these scavenger cells is being studied. In such
cases. the exposure of the whole animal to smoke inhalation, followed
by collection of macrophages, is considered preferable to test-tube
exposure of the latter, since all the homeostatic and feed-back mech-
anisms are operational in the whole animal. Ina test-tube, the effect of
smoke on mobilization of macrophages cannot be seen, and the
important role of this factor in the total effects is neglected.

In the present stage it may be said that we: are searching for
systems that might show significant biological effects of smoke inhala-
tion under conditions reasonably comparable to those of normal human.
exposure. Only after such systems have been developed and evaluated
will it be reasonable to use fixed biological systems for comparing
different tobaccos or different smokes, or attempting fractionation to
identify the active ingredients, or delving into the biological mech-
anisms of the effect with 2 view to offsetting them.

The Viral Genome Concept

Recently, still another dimension has been added to cancer
studies through application of the viral genome concept of cancer.?!

This concept postulates that leukemia, sarcoma, and carcinoma are all ©

expressions of a vertically transmitted “viral genome” present in all
mammalian cells, which probably performs some normal and necessary
function in the embryonic stage and then is normally repressed or

- “tumed off. This repression may ultimately fail under influences such

as aging. exposure to radiation, viral infection, chemical agents, or
others still undescribed. Under certain circumstances the genome may
give rise to transferable (but rarely spontaneously transmissible)
“C-type virus particles” that can produce cancer in a suitable host.

The ramifications of the concept are enormously comple: But it
appears to be providing 2 rational interpretation of many empirically
described differences in the “susceptibility” of various mouse strains to
cancer, as well as techniques for manipulating these susceptibilities

_ experimentally.

In the Council program, we hope that the use of models based on

‘these concepts will help elucidate the interplay between internal

mechanisms of cancer susceptibility and resistance on the one hand,
and the role of external agencies on the other.

2"R. J. Huebner and G. J. Todar, “Onocogenes of RNA Tumor Viruses as.

Determinants of Cancer,” Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, 64:
1969, p. 1087. :

 

se aoe

eee