OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH - 33

‘seadiy differentiate between this disease and others such as “galloping . , 2

- reported today.”
“+. The recent development of a virtually universal awareness of the

- period of time.?

 

consumption” or pneumonia. Post-mortem pathology was actually .
capable of providing a reliable diagnosis for nearly a century before the ,
disease reached any very general medical consciousness.* In those few
centers where autopsies were conducted frequently, the disease was not
only recognized but was found to occur at a rate comparable to that

disease, together with increased application of such techniques as
improved diagnostic radiology, bronchoscopy, exfoliative cytology, and
exploratory thoracotomy, have greatly increased the. reporring of the
disease. These developments are certainly to be applauded insofar as
they bring about more effective treatment. Their widening application,
nevertheless, has probably produced a quite fictitious picture of the
extent of actual increase in incidence ef primary lung carcinoma overa

While this situation may not greatly affect the responsibilities of
the medical profession in the realm of management, it presents a
problem to the students of etiology who depend upon an accurate
picture of changing incidence over time if they are to make reliable
correlations with environmental factors that have similarly changed
over the same period. -

Other problems remain unresolved. The ordinary death certificate
does not always, by any means, reflect or include all of the information
gained post-mortem or‘even clinically, and continues to be primarily a
document required for legal purposes rather than a sophisticated
medical report.

For example, the distinction between primary lung cancer and
secondary metastatic cancer in the lung is not easy to make in many
cases, and since it is of relatively little importance to the physician

 

*M. B. Rosenblatt. “Lung Cancer in the 19th Century,” BuZetin of History of

Medicine, 38: 1964, p. 395. o / |
* Rosenbiatt, Jdid. / : - .
2° Wittis, Rosenblatt, and others have discussed problems of diagnosis in the . i
following works: R. A. Willis, “The Incidence of Histological Types of Pulmonary . . i
Carcinoma, with Comments on Some Fallacies and Uncertainges,” Medical . are :

Journal of Australia, 1: 1961, 9. 16;M. B. Rosenblatt, J. R. Lis2 and S. Trinidad,
“Pitfalls in the Clinical and Histolegical Diagnosis of Bronchogenic Carcinoma,”

Diseases of the Chest, 49: 1966, p. 396; and M. B. Rosenblate, P. Teng S. Kerpe, . 2. ae .
and J. Beck, “Prevalence of Lung Cancer: Dispanty Between Clinical and Autopsy we ee ET,
Certification,” Medical Counterpoint, 3: 1971. , . . 7 2 _