+e eee Ces sete ere ee y meee net,

—rnecwromertamtatrratentwaceapatiente

. . I °
t
|
:
014 bneaatenstpennatmirnes cewtn ahbeeonmenaeiraes

OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH

<oe 37

constitutional factors as essential to the understanding of etiology.
Investigation of the responses to tobacco smoke is very definitely ~
included in the program, but the design of biological test. systems for

whom the smoking of cigarettes can contribute ta etiology of any
constitutional disease. _ vee ae, Loo hadi r
. . a blessing core’:

Chemical Carcinogens . Le teow

Following the epidemiological reports that arowsed the original -- wile

concerns about tobacco, a number of chemists und=rtook analytical
work aimed at finding out whether any of the so-called “carcinogenic -
Substances" already known to chemistry were Present in tobacco
smoke. . noes se

This search required fractionation of smoke. New and powerful .

Separation techniques, particularly chromatography, and physical-
chemical techniques for identifying substances in very: minute quanti-

ties were brought to bear. Many of the well-known “chemical car- _.

cinogens” belong ‘to the class of Polynuclear hydrocarhons. It turned
Out that the most abundant member of this class derecemble in cigarette
smoke by modern methods was benzo(a)pyrene. Several highly skilled
chemists failed to detect any benzo(a)pyrene in smoke because of the
minute amounts. In earlier times it would probably have been reported
as undetectable. But finally it was found to be actwally present.
Newspaper headlines reported thata “.., Carcinogenic substance has
been identified in cigarette smoke,” ‘ :

But this is a quantitative age. It is no longer sufficiemt to ask “‘Is it
there?” We must also ask, “Is enough present to be of any conse-
quence?” “. 7

Meanwhile, biological investigators recalled the histary of coal tar
investigations which led to discovery of severa} Carcimosenic poly-
nuclear hydrocarbons in this complex nature. Coal tar painted on the
skins of mice Produced cancers, and this test was therefore used to
guide chemical fractionations until several of the active ingredients such
as benzo(a)pyrene were finally isolated. The same technique was

"3 Iqerescaps teterns:

“Get

applied to cigarette smoke condensates, perhaps because biologists were - -

>