- 30 — ISSUES. CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

tive level; i.e. to record and catalog the changes in the ultimate ~
. composition of processed tobacco or its smoke that could be brought «++

. : about by the kinds of systematic alterations they could achieve. For
7° example, it has been possible to determine how the kinds, amounts, and
sequence of application of nitrogenous fertilizers affect the levels of
certain nitrogenous constituents in the product tobacco and the corte-
sponding levels of several nitrogen compounds in the smoke.' Thus, a
stock-pile of information is being built up which can be drawn upon if
on . and when criteria can be defined for assessing any health consequences

OT of higher or lower levels of such compounds in smoke.

 

: ° . . Te Inadequate Tests .
Obviously, if there were some Simple, reliable system for testing
tobacco or its smoke for relative “safety”, for human use, a much more
highly organized, systematic, and efficient program could be planned
, and implemented toward the goal of maximum safety. Present descrip- .
tive work cannot tnily_ be targeted toward a health goal, though
Experiment Station personnet and health: agencies would like to be
~~ able to attack the real problem directly: *=- ~: \- ct
Unfortunately, there is no simple single test or even battery of .
. . tests adequate to guide such x program. Existing tests are no better than
. the hypotheses or conjectures upon which they are based. But the
complexity of this problem. has not been universally recognized, and
eagerness for a systematic “safety program” has apparently seduced
some investigators into placing an unjustified reliance upon certain test
Systems such as mouse skin painting with cigarette smoke condensates.
However, before commenting upon this test method and others
regarded as better by their proponents, we should pause to comment
upon the origins of the view that cigarette smoking is a “major hazard
to human health.”

ete a,

a yt alee chs ‘

Origins of Health Issue
Tt is not necessary to go into any detailed examination of the
evidence, since we are all aware’ that the conjecture has arisen largely
- ‘B. Neurath and H. Ehmke, “Untersuchungen uber den Nitratgebalt des Tabaks,”
Beitrage zur Tabak forschung, 2:7, 1964, p. 333. The references included in this

Paper are selected as illustrative of major contributions in specific areas. Refer-
ences in these areas are so extensive that space will not permit 3 comprehensive

bibbography.