| painting system in relation to the human lung cancer problem by’ “~'
|
j
{

ee HO 9) 0 arm eatnrn 8 i poten merry

OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH - 39

tion, While skin tests of this kind may provide some certain kinds of
information that will ultimately be useful in building the total mosaie
of knowledge, they certainly do not provide any simple or direct --
measure of any human hazard in cigarette smoking.

. For one thing, the test includes the tacit assumption that the only
effect of consequence in relation to lung cancer pathogenesis is the
potential activity of tobacco smoke as a-direct contact carcinogen.

| There is no reason to assume that this is so and to neglect a dozen other
hypothetical possibilities. If delay in clearance of aix-bome carcinogens ~
os from the bang should be a factor in lung carcinogenesis, then the effects *°~
, of tobacco ‘smoke on lung clearance mechanisms might be relevant. If. =:
chronic irritation of the lung increases its susceptib@ity to carcinogenic “~
influences from any source, then potential irritants in tobacco smoke
might be relevant. If inadequacies of the immune system permit repeti- +
tive bacterial or viral infections. of the lung that pave the way to
eventual malignancy, or lower the defenses against “transformed” cells,

we may be interested in the effects of chronic smoke inhalation on the“ -

immune system. And so on.- - “ -
I once summarized some of the inadequacies of the mouse skin |

pointing out that it involves the. “wrong material, im the wrong form,: °
and in the wrong dose, applied to the wrong tissue of the wrong
animal.”"!7 . an - Coo ad : . . 0
Smoke condensates are the “wrong material” an that they do not
contain all the ingredients of whole smoke that impinge upon the lung _”
surface of smokers. They are stale, relatively speaking, and may not
contain all the short-lived substances present in fresh smoke. They may
contain artifactual substances formed during storage but not present in
fresh smoke.’ : : : me
Condensates differ from fresh smoke in physical form, being -
“blobs of glob’ instead of an aerosol of tiny liquid’ droplets bearing
electric charges, Skin painting, as ordinarily practiced. uses dosages.that --
: concentrate a far greater amount of material on a unit area of skin than
i is experienced by any equivalent area of the enormous internal lung
‘TR. C. Hockett, “Perspectives in the Experimental Approach to the Human

Lung Cancer Problem,” in Lung Tumors in Animals, L. Severs, Editor, Division of
Cancer Research, Perugia (Italy), 1966, p. 466,

'*M. J. Lyons, J. F. Gibson, and D. J. E. Ingram, “Free Radicals Produced in

Cigarette Smoke,” Nature, 181: 1958, p. 1003, and G. Neurath, “Zur Frage des

Vorkommens von N-Nitroso-Verbindungen in Tabakrauch,”’ Experientia, 23:
* 1967, p. 400.

eens meee

See eres eee

Cee ee

TT re tt rere en armen ee ee Ome ee