20 oe patent oreenpmen~ erento ter oes

~on
el

!

t

t

:

1

 

$1 pe mentee senna eneetnanee meen eneteins pee see

,
i

_ OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH . 49

cigarette to the lung surface of the animal. but can also be

. modified by regulating the rate of flow. If this cannot be made

the same as for man, the distance must at least be constant and be -<
known. These requirements also make it necessary to expose
animals in. individual containers where they occupy fixed posi-
tions rather than in groups.

6. Since humans inhale smoke-plus-air from the oral cavity
without its passage through the nasal turbinates where particu-
lates might be trapped and thus fail to reach the lung, it would be
. 4m advantage to induce experimental animals to inhale through’

. the mouth. This is being attempted through nose sealing with “-' -*

’ rodents with the disadvantage that the procedure is made much .-
more traumatic. Mouth inhalation is easier to attain with dogs but

at the cost of other complications: _*: - Beet meee nee meets
7, Since smoke inhalation by humans is intermittent, and

air is inhaled between puffs, there is a minimal build-up of carbo- -

xyhemoglobin in the blood in norma! smoking. Animals must be’
given similar intermittent conditions by purging smoke and gases

from any chamber in which they may be housed, or by giving ~~" .

adequate access to air between smoke inhalations. If this is not
done, blood carboxyhemoglobin builds up to 2 point where
significant physiological effects result.” .

. 8. Animals must be exposed with only. the breathing
apparatus in the mainstream of smoke. If there is smoke contact
with the fur, they will preen themselves or lick one another and
receive dosages of nicotine and other smoke constituents that are
not taken into account. :

9. Since some of the conditions described as necessary are
traumatic to animals, stress effects may complicate the results. . - -
Hence “machine controls” subjected to all the same conditions as
experimental animals except for actual smoke inhalation must be
used to apprehend such effects. (Very substantial stress effects
have been observed in recent studies). Gradual training and
habituation may be of some value in reducing stress.

10. Some method of measuring the actual exposure of lung
surfaces to smoke, both to gas-phase and to particulate material, .
is necessary if dose-relationships are to be determined in other
than very qualitative terms.

Gas phase contact’ with lung surfaces is best indicated at