50 ISSUES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

- present by blood carboxyhemoglobin determinations since
. carbon monoxide is not appreciably absorbed in the oral or nasal
cavities but is rapidly taken up by the blood through the
pulmonary membranes. Blood analysis for carboxyhemoglobin is
suitable for routine monitoring of gas-vapor phase exposure of
the lung. . ; .
. Measurement of lung contact specifically with particulates 5
re is more difficult since a tag is needed that is present in the .
festa particulates but absent from the gas-phase. Nicotine fulfills this
se requirement but its absorption, transport, and metabolism are so
rapid that quantitation of lung contact with particulate matter by
nicotine analysis of lungs removed and fixed immediately after
exposure is not satisfactory. Indications of minimum dosage have
been obtained by this method.

Tobaccos to which dichlorobenzopherone or }*C-dotria-
contane-16, 17 have been incorporated produce smoke containing
the tag specifically in the particulate phase. Experiments are
under way to determine lung dosage of smoke particulates by use
of these tags. Such methods may serve to calibrate the function
of particular machines, under defined conditions with particular
animal species, but do not appear suitable for routine monitoring | . .
use. . . ° - 4 x
Most of the conditions listed above have been attained satisfactor- i aE

ily with new equipment designed to expose small animals including : : woot,
mice, rats, guinea pigs, and hamsters. Other conditions such as relatively . .
low stress and direct inhalation of smoke from the burning cigarette
(instead of mechanical puffing) have been attained with dogs and .
monkeys at the sacrifice of various advantages of the smaller animals. tO, . my

Animals used in inhalation studies should be fully described as to : . - .
age, sex, weight, nutritional state, physical condition, virus com- . . yo
ponents, extent of surgical trauma, and the degree of stress to which :
they are subjected. Appropriate numbers of both sham-smoked, and
cage-held animals should serve as controls.

The end points to be sought include more than morphological
alterations and the presence or absence of tumors. They also should
include appropriate biochemical measurements and their analysis.
Multivariant analysis should be applied to the data obtained from the

 

ne ee ee eee

 

 

At eee eis awe
—

systematic observations of the controlled parameters relative to the ton ee
smoking machine, the animal model, and the biological and biochemical , : ne ° ”
measurements. By these means, it may be possible to interpret some of ; ect

”

 

sy