ty

eames ae

te amen eee

mew ee aes

© Fare ae nt at ame pie EN & denen eTeten H08

OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH 41

 

rr

A complication in such studies is the fact that handling and
confinement in the machine is stressful for animals. Thus, “machine
controls” must be employed without actual smoke exposure, as well as

unhandled cage controls, if the effects of smoke inhalation are to be.

separated from stress effects. Unfortunately, this device does not allow
us to study smoke effects separately from those of stress, but it has
opened the way to. some most interesting studies of the biochemical

_ effects of stress. - -

We hope we are now ready to begin studying the effects of smoke

" exposure on a considerable number of biological and biochemical

systems such as those hinted at in the discussiom of constitutional
disease etiology above. At this stage we are far from ready to compare
different varieties of tobacco. On the contrary, it i necessary to use a
uniform, fully described “reference cigarette” to matnimize variations in
the smoke being used in these investigations. We are indebted to the
University of Kentucky for undertaking to provide such cigarettes.

Furthermore, we have found it necessary to improve the
standardization of animals. For most studies, caesarean-derived animals
substantially free from pathogens are employed, and their virus profiles
are determined as fully as possible. The availabilizy of many inbred
strains of mice with known congenital tumor susceptibilities still recom-
mends the use of mice for much cancer research. As inbred strains of
hamsters, and information on their virus status, have developed, studies
with this species have been undertaken in cases where the larger lung
and greater blood volume are an advantage.

In the Council program of exposing animals to the inhalation of
whole, fresh, normal cigarette smoke, it is possible to distinguish several
categories. First, there are the purely descriptive studies. Following
exposure of various strains and species to defined lewels of smoke for
various periods, they are sampled for description of the histopathologi-
cal state of the lungs and assayed for selected biochemmical and immuno-

chemical changes. If any disease ultimately develops, antecedent ,

changes can hopefully be assessed.as early warning sigms.

In other cases, the effects of smoke inhalation on a specific
biological system that, by good evidence, is thoughm to be related to
disease susceptibility, are being observed. For exarmple, there can be
little doubt of the importance of the pulmonary alveolar macrophages
in the defense of the lung against extraneous material. Hence, the
influence of smoke inhalation upon the mobilization, metabolism, and

ee ts ee ee

>

 

 

,