OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH - 31

out of epidemiological studies that reported statistical associations
between cigarette smoking and the rates of incidence or death rates
from several diseases. These included cancer in several sites, various
cardiovascular diseases, and chronic ailments of the lung, as weil as

_ Rumerous other diseases in such variety and diversity, in fact, as to

strain credulity.” -

Problems Associated With The Epidemiological Approach.

It is universally conceded that the causes of diseases can never be
determined by such epidemiological studies alone.* These studies may
point to areas in which laboratory experiments with animals, integrated
with human clinical observations, are needed to explain and interpret
the real meaning of statistical relationships gleaned fom human popula-
tion studies. | -

Experts in the field have pointed out many unsolved problems

“ gelating to the epidemiological approach. Perhaps the most disturbing ‘
criticism of existing studies is that in human poputations, the smoker
and non-smoker groups are seif-selected to begin wich instead of being
assigned at random as would be the case in any competent animal
experiment, as well as subject to further selectioms that may occur
during processing.“ At present, we do not know enough about the
conscious or unconscious motivations involved im the adoption or
maintenance of cigarette smoking to judge fully the nature and extent
2See Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Smoking and Health, Report
of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General, USPHS Publication 1103,
Washington, D.C., 1964, Chapters 4, 8, 9,10, 11, 12 and, J. Berkson, “Difficulty

of Interpretation of the ‘Association’ of Death Rates and Physical Factors,” Bull,
de l'Institut International de Statistique, 33rd Session, Paris, 1961. :

“You can prove anything by statistics is & common gide. Its contrary is more
nearly true—you ean never prove anything by statistics. The statistician is dealing
with the most complex cases of multiple causation. He may show that the facts
are in accordance with this hypothesis or that. But it is quize another thing to
show that all other possible hypotheses are excluded, and that the facts do not
admit of any other interpretation than the particular one he may have in mind.”
C. V. Yule, “The Function of Statistical Method in Scientific Investigation,”
Industrial Fatigue Research Boord Reporr 28, Rescarch Council, H. M.’s Station-
ery Office, London, 1924, p. 4. Also see Department of Heaith, Education, and
Welfare, Smoking and Health, op.cir., p. 20.

“For further discussion see: J. Berkson, “The Statistical Study of Association
Between Smoking and Lung Cancer.” Proceedings-Staff Meetings of the Mayo
Clinic, 30: 1955, p. 319, and J. Yerushalmy, “Sratistical Considerations and
Evaluation of Epidemiological Evidence,” In Tobacco and Health, G. James and
T. Rosenthal, Editors, Springficid, [lnois, 1962, p. 208.