- 38 _ ISSUES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

 

 

familiar with mouse skin painting techniques. Although several investi-
gators obtained negative results, others reported a marginal activity if
sufficient. quantities of condensate were applied to sensitive mouse
strains for a long enough time. The tumors so produced were mostly
nonmalignant, and those judged to be malignant had little invasive
power and did not metastasize or “seed” to other. parts of the body as
do mouse skin tumors induced with benzo(a)pyrene. ,

Especially notable is the fact that even this faint activity cannot
be attributed to benzo(a)pyrene, since the latter can be added to smoke
condensates to increase the content thirty fold without altering the
mouse-skin activity.'* This finding largely removed the spot-light of
suspicion from benzo(a)pyrene as the specific potential cancer agent in

Cigarette smoke. Nevertheless, no other substance has emerged out of |

analytical studies to supersede benzo(a)pyrene as an object of suspi-
cion. These findings have not. generated any newspaper headlines.
Primates (monkeys and apes) are very much more resistant to
skin painting with the “carcinogenic” polynuclear hydrocarbons than
mice or rabbits. Though it is not feasible to conduct such experiments
with men, the relative insensitivity of human cells to such substances

has been confirmed in tissue cultures.?® It has also been pointed out .

that certain medicinal salves containing coal-tar have been used harm-
lessty by humans for generations in the treatment of skin disorders,
whereas these same salves readily induce skin cancers in mice. Of
course, human smokers expose their skins to cigarette smoke for years

on end and often have yellow fingers, but no skin tumors have ever

been reported from such exposure.

The mouse skin painting test has persisted nevertheless, being
used on the assumption that it might measure overall “contact carcino-
genic potency” of 2 whole battery of substances, including perhaps
unidentified carcinogens, inhibitors, and promoters, acting in concert.
The test has been used, in fact, as a guide to modifying tobacco
products, on the assumption that a diminution of mouse skin activity
by the corresponding smoke condensates will be an indication of
greater “safety” in its use by man. I regard this as a very naive assump-
‘8p Eosar, §. Chouroulinkov, C. Liebermann, and M. Guerin, “Benzo (a) pyrene
Coatent and Carcinogencity of Cigarette Smoke Condensate—Results of Short-

Term and Long-Term Tests,” Journal of the National Cancer Institute, 37: 1966,
p. 573.

27th Diamond, “The Effect of Carcinogenic Hydrocarbons on Rodent and

Premate Cells in Vitro,” Journal of Cellular and Comparative Physiology, 66: -

1965, p. 183.

>

| tmnt mm