34 "ISSUES CONFRONTING THE TOBACCO INDUSTRY

responsible for treatment, is not generally attempted with any assidu-
ity. To the student of etiology, however, this distinction is of prime
importance. I am advised that death certificate data tabulated by
government statisticians do not provide any firm basis for apprehending
time trends in the incidence of true primary carcinoma of the lung.’*
Many other confusing problems could be mentioned, but because
of time limitations, I will mention only three more. One is the matter
of substantial differences in the incidence of lung cancer in various
geographical areas, ‘which do not correlate with the reported levels of
cigarette smoking in those areas. There are localities and sub-popula- -

_tions where lung cancer is reported to be relatively prevalent while

cigarette smoking is minimal and others with the reverse situations.??

Adequate analysis of all the factors that may be involved would require
resources on a scale that can probably be provided only by a major
international health agency. .

A second problem is the persisting substantial differences
between lung cancer incidence in females as compared to males, includ-
ing overall incidence, relative incidence of the various cell types, and a -
different pattern of association with cigarette smoking.'? Still a third

11 For example see the research of Rosenblatt and others in M. B. Rosenblatt and
J. R. Lisa, “Simulation of Lung Cancer by Metastases,” Journal of the American
Geriatrics Society, 15: 1967, p. 921; and M. B. Rosenblatt, J. R. Lisa, and S.
Trinidad, “Metastatic Lung Cancer Masquerading as Bronchogenic Carcinoma,”
Geriatrics, 21: 1966, p. 139. ‘ :

4%Further discussion of differences in the incidence of lung cancer in various
geographic regions can be found in the following references: E. J. Macdonald, D.
J. Wellington and P. F. Wolf, “Regional Patterns in Mortality from Cancer in the
United States,” Cancer, 20: 1967, p. 617; T. F. Mancuso, E. M. MacFaslane and J.
D. Porterfield, “The Distribution of Cancer Mortality in Ohio,” American Journal
of Public Health, 45: 1955, p- 458; T. F. Mancuso and E. J. Coulter, “Cancer
Mortality Among Native White, Forcign-born White and Non-white Residents of
Ohio: Cancer of the Lung, Laryna, Bladder and Central Nervous System,” Journal
of the National Cancer insriture, 20: 1958, p. 79; D. F. Eastcott, “Epidemiology
of Lung Cancer in New Zealand,” Lancer, 1: 1956, p. 37; G. Dean, “Lung Cancer
Among White South Africans,” British Medical Journal, 2: 1959, p. 852; R
Buechley, J. E. Dunn, Jr., G. Linden and L. Breslow, “Excess Lung Mortality
Rates Among Mexican Women in California,” Cancer, 10: 1957, p. 63.

1° For further discussion of the differential incidence of lung cancer in association
with sex ratios see: H. Kirchoff and R. H. Rigdon. “Cancer of the Lung—-the Sex:
Ratio, A Review of the Problem,” Texas Rep. Biology end Medicine, 17: 1959, p.
29; M. B. Rosenblatt, “Sex Distribution, Longevity, Smoking. and Lung Cancer,”
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 14: 1966, p. 711;and H. L. Lombard
and E. P. Huyck. “An Epidemiological Study of Lung Cancer Among Females,”
Growth, 32: 1968, p. 41. .

eee: