he,
rm

are ee ne meee eet

 

‘OVERVIEW OF MEDICAL RESEARCH _ 43

In this instance, it is possible that pursuit of the ramifications of
the viral genome concept could lead to the discovery of sorne gencral
method for identifying cancer-susceptible persons and bolstering their
defenses to prevent the disease. , ‘

Selecting Systems for Study
= J feel that there are important criteria to be applied in selecting
systems for study. The Council is attempting to select systems that have

a high probability of bearing upon the diseases in which we are inter-

Scientific Advisory Board is presently disinclined to sponsor further ~
studies on the possible effects of nicotine of smoking on blood clotting --
mechanisms because of substantial doubt whether abnormal clotting
mechanisms are really casually related to “coronary occlusion or
myocardial infarction”. mT ‘

The Council has still another objective in the attempt to provide

positive models for the production of squamous carcinoma in the lungs .°-

of animals. If some simple method can be devised that does not depart 7:
too radically from the kinds of experience met by man in daily life, it
could be most useful. If lung cancer of the type that is prevalent in man -
could be produced repetitively at a sharply reproducible level, say 20
per cent, in mice or some other animal, the way would be opened fora
great many organized systematic studies to see how age, sex, hormones,
irritants, stress, diet, infection, and many other factors might influence
the level and rate of incidence of the tumors. ’

Three Additional Aspects of the Council Program -

Cardiovascular Disease. In the matter of cardiovascular diseases,
several, especially coronary artery disease, are reputed to be more
frequent in cigarette smokers. In the earlier stages of the Council
program, a great deal of nicotine pharmacology study was sponsored in

the hope of finding some clues as to why such an association should

exist. In fact, no substantial clues were found. Meanwhile, twin studies
in Sweden have shown the predominant importance of hereditary
factors in this disease by comparing identical twins, one of whom has
been a cigarette smoker while the other has not. No significant differ-
ences in cardiovascular functions or symptoms of disorder, or in age of

ested. If such criteria are not used in selection, a program can degen- -
erate into the collection of interesting but presently useless informa- ° --
tion, rather than providing answers to clear questions. For example, our ~*~"