forming coalitions, The Republicans have begun running radio ads
in the Bellingham area. Purpose of ads is to go after democrats
that voted in favor of ESSB 4519. He indicated that if we wanted
to run ads against Representative Fisch ( D 24 Port Angeles),
they would create the ads and buy the placement time to saturate
the district for $500. Discussed possible language, or direction
of language of proposed initiative.

* Flew to Boise Idaho with Alexander King to meet with
the Tobacco Institute's counsel, Bill Roden. Also met with Dick
Kading and Mike Brassy, also TI counsels. Had luncheon meeting

to discuss general problems and attitudes of the Idaho State
Legislature.

* Paid visit to Cecil Wright of Capitol Distributors, one
of the industry distributors, in Boise. Shown how cigarettes

were stamped and discussed a tax deferral bill that he wants to
see enacted.

* Met with Bill Roden and an informal group of

legislators, consultants and key Senate staff personnel. General
overview of the session to date, and of things to come,

* Dinner meeting with Alexander H. King, Bill Roden and
Representative Doug Jones ( R 23 Idaho) to discuss pending
legislation relative to a proposed sales tax amendment that will
be offered Tuesday. Discussion revolved around the tax, which is

discretionary at the local level, and it's possible impact on our
industry.

* Spoke with Mac McAddams, President of the Washington

-State Bartenders Union, about their involvement with the
initiative drive in Washington State, There are a total of eight

thousand members in the Pierce and King County area. (Tacoma and
Seattle).

* McAddams is setting up a meeting between his

counterpart in Seattle and myself for mid-week of march 3rd.
* Called Tina Walls, Phillip Morris, to open the door for

us to sit down with their counsel Martin Durkan. Permission was
granted.

* Contacted Durkan's office to set meeting. Meeting will

take place, possibly this weekend. Durkan will contact Bill
Fritz, the Tobacco Institute’s counsel, and also counsel for
R.J. reynolds, Dean Morgan.

* Updated Bill Fritz relative to initiative coalition.

x Contacted Vito Cheichi who will be the new chief of
staff of the Minority House Caucus. Discussed the caucus
involvement with initiative. Also discussed in detail the pros
and cons of running with an initiative.

TNWL 0000111