oT LF Ae EE 2 te

sylhomocysteine and S-adenosylmethionine in me-
thionine-dependent and independent cells. After a
24 h incubation in [*S}homocysteine, they found a
reduced incorporation of radioactivity into S-
adenosylmethionine and an increased incorpora-
tion into S-adenosylhomocysteine in the trans-
formed. methionine-dependent cells compared to
normal methionine-independent cells and methuo-
nine-independent revertants derived from the
transformed cells. Further studies have shown that
the free methionine pools are approx. 80-fold lower
in transformed cells grown in Met” Hcy* medium
compared to that of cells grown in Met* Hey”
medium. although only 4-fold less methiomne is
incorporated into protein under the two conditions
(7).

These resulis suggested two possible molecular
mechanisms which could account for the inability
of transforined cells to grow on Met” Hcy*
medium, In the first place, there may be altered
metabolism of homocysteine in the methionine-dée-
pendent cells. When grown on homocysteine, the
level of S-adenosylhomocysteine, the condensation
product of this compound with adenosine and a
potent inhibitor of cellular wansmethylation reac-
tions [8], may build up and inhibit one or more
methylation reactions crucial for cell growth. Sec-
ondly, there may be alterations in the enzyme
which synthesizes S-adenosylmethionine from
methionine and ATP. Here, a reduced activity.

 

 

ee a a

271

especially at low intracellular methionine con-
centrations. would lower the level of the niethyl
group donor. Such a defect in this enzyme may be
reflected either in a reduced maximal velocity or in
an increased K,, for methionine. In the present
study, we have focused on this lauer alternative,
and have characterized the S-adenosylmethiionine
synthetase from several methionine-independent
and -dependent rat and human cultured cell lines.

Experimental

Growth and preparation of ceils for enzyme anal-
ysis. The origin and properties of the cell lnes
used here are shown in Table |. Cells were seeded
into Corning 490 cm? plastic roller bottles at 1-2 -
10° cells per bottle and were grown at 37°C in
Eagle's Minimal Essential Medium containing
penicillin and streptomycin and supplemented with
10% fetal calf serum. When the cells had reached
confluency, they were washed with warm phos-
phate-buffered saline (pH 7.2), trypsinized, and
washed an additional three times with phosphate-
buffered saline (20 ml per wash). The cell pellets
were then stored at — 70°C until used for enzyme
analysis. :

Preparation of cell extracts. The final cell pellet
(5-10? cells, 0.3 ml packed volume) was resus-
pended in 3 m! of 120 mM KCI, 160 mM Hepes-
NaOH, pH 7.4, and was subjected to 3 cycles of

 

TABLET
CELL LINES
Designation Ongn Methonne Ref.
Phenotype
WL 38 fibroblasts from human female embryonic long biopsy independent 9
BA Cibroblasts from human foreskin independent 4
PS {Subclone of doubly cloned subline of SV-40 transformed human fibroblasts dependent 0
SV-80) from shun biopsy of an adult female i
RS revertant of PS (formerly Rc) indepéndent 12
4
Pi (subclone of doubly cloned subline of $V-40 transformed dependent 10
WI8VA2) fibroblasts from an adult human buccal biopsy BB
Ri revertant of Pl independent 10
W-256 Mahgnant ral breast carcinoma (Walker 256) dependent 3
14
W-256 RI revertant of W-236 independent 4

 

 

PUBLICATIONS

10335936

016898 -