Ctr Acknowledged
770 D. B. Cohan

BBA 21579

 

Biochumea et Biéphysico Acta. 760 (1983) 270-277
Elsewer

S-ADENOSYLMETHIONINE SYNTHETASE IN CULTURED NORMAL AND
ONCOGENICALLY-TRANSFORMED HUMAN AND RAT CELLS

KRISTINE L. ODEN *, KAREN CARSON *, JAMES 0. MECHAM °, ROBERT M HOFFMAN © and STEVEN CLARKE «+

* Department of Ci hemustry and Biochemistry and the Molecular

Giology Insitute, Uneversiy of C ahforma. Los Angeles, CA 90024 and

® Department of Pediarnes, M-009, Unversity of Cahforma, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093 (USA)

{Received May 2nd. 1983)

Key words. S- Adenosylmethonine Synthetase, Transformanon, Meth:ontne. Homocysteine, tHuman, rat}

We have investigated the enzymatic formation of S-adenosylmethionine in extracts of a variety of normal

and oncogenically-transformed hunian and rat cell

lines which differ in their ability to grow in medium in

which methionine is replaced by its immediate precursor homocysteine. We have localized the bulk of the
S-adenosy methionine synthetase activity to the post-mitochondrial supernatant. We show that in all cell lines
@ single kinetic species exists in a dialyzed extract with a X,,, for methionine of about 3-12 uM. In selected

lines we have demonstrated a requirement for Mg?*
complex for enzyme activity and have shown that th
inhibition. Because we detect no differences in the
methionine for S-adenosyimethionine formation in vi
formed cell lines to grow in homocysteine medium may

in addition to that needed to form the Mg:ATP
@ enzyme can be regulated by product feedback
enzymatic ability of these cell extracts to utilize

we suggest that the failure of oncogenically-trans-

result from the decreased methionine pools in these

celis or from the loss of ability of these cells to Properly metabolize homocysteine, adenosine, or their cellular

product S-adenosythomocysteine.

Introduction

Almost all higher animals require dietary
methionine for growth, although this need can
generally be met by its metabolic precursor homo-
cysieine in the form of homocystine (1). A similar
situauion has been found for Primary cultures of
normal mammahan cells where either methionine
or a mixture including homocysteine, vitamin B-12,
and folic acid is required for growth. However, in
virally transformed or in cancer cell lines, cells
often lose the ability to proliferate in methionine-
deficient, homocysteine-containing medium
(Met '-Hcy*) and become dependent upon methi-
onine for growth (for a review, see Ref. 2). The

 

* To whom correspondence should be addressed

0304-4265 /83/303 00 £ 1983 Elsevier Science Pubbshers BV

PUBLICATIONS

molecular defect is still unknown, and recent et-
forts have focused on examining differences in the
metabolism of methionine and homocysteine in
normal and transformed cells.

It has been clearly shown that methionine-de-
pendent cells synthesize targe amounts of intracel-
lular methionine from homocysteine and 5-
methyl-tetrahydrofolate (3,4). Methionine is used
not only for protein synthesis but for the ATP-de-
pendent synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine. This
Product is used as a methyl group donor in a wide
variety of transmethylation reactions. as a pro-
pylamine donor in polyamine synthesis, and as an
intermediate in the biosynthesis of cysteine [5,6].
To ask whether methionine-dependent cells syn-
thesize or metabolize S-adenosylmethionine differ-
ently from normal cells, Coalson et al. 14} cam-
pared the ratio of isotopic intracellular S-adeno-

10335935

016897