total soluble activity 1s found in the post-
mitochondrial supernatant following lysis and is
presumably localized in the cell cytosol. The small
temaining soluble activity which is released from
the pellet fraction by Triton X-100 may originate
from unbroken cells, or from the mitochondria,
nuclei, or microsomes. A similar distribution of
activity was found in three cell lines, including,
‘normal’ methionine-independent human fibro-
blasts (WI-38), SV-40 transformed methionine-de-
pendent cells (P5), and a methionine-independent
revertant of the transformed celis (RS). In all
cases, dialysis of the supernatant fraction does not
markedly change the specific activity of the en-
zyme. The level of enzyme activity observed here is
very similar to thal measured in extracts prepared
by sonication from fibroblast cell ines (including
WI-38) grown on the same normal methionine
medium (100 4M, Ref. 12) used in our experi-
ments but is about four-fold less than that found
in these cells grown in a law methionine medium
Q pM Ref. 12).

Establishment of optimal Mg?* and ATP levels for
S-adenosylmethionine syntheiase assay

There appears to be at least two classes of
enzymes which synthesize S-adenosylmethionine
in mammalian cells. The first is represented by an
enzyme found to date only in liver cytosol. This
enzyme is characterized by a high K,, for
methionine (about 1 mM) and an activation by the
product S-adenosy!methionine (17,18). The second
class of enzyme has been found in all cell types
examined and is characterized by a relatively low
K,, for methionine (2-20 4M) and is inhibited by
the product S-adenosylmethionine [16,17]. In hu-
man erythrocytes, which contain only the low K,,,
form of the enzyme, an unusual dependence on
Mg?* has been observed where full enzyme activ-
ity is only reached at Mg?* levels much larger
than those necessary to saturate the ATP present
[16]. The basis for this dependence is not known.

To determine if the $-adenosylmethionine syn-
thetase from the human and at cell lines used here
also displayed this type of Mg?* dependence, we
have measured the acuvity of the enzyme at vari-
ous Mg?" concentrations. We found that maximal
activity is obtained only with a 20-fold excess of
Mg?* over ATP (Fig. 1). In the presence of 20

PUBLICATIONS

10335938

 

273
5 30
eo
&
a
E
¢
© 20
£
3
E
a
=
3 10
>
a
ofa \ tt
a 5 10 18 20

[Mg**] mm

Fig. 1 Effect of Mg?* concentranon on S-adenosylmethionine
synthetase acumty. Enzyme activity was measured in a 30 min
assay using concentrauons of 1 mM ATP and 0-20 mM
MgCl, An undialyzed extract containing 0.21 mg of protean
from the W-256 RI cell line was used.

mM Mg?™, the maximal velocity is obtained at an
ATP concentration of 1 mM. In fact, raising the
ATP concentration over this value results in a loss
Of activity, perhaps as a result of complexing
required free Mg?* or by lowering the level of a
required dimagnesium ATP complex (Fig. 2). The
concentration of ATP required for half-maximal
activity was approx. 0.27 mM in this experiment.

Actiaty, pmol /enin/mg proten
oe
Go
;

Xd
9 4 6 8 1 20

(ATP) mm

Fig 2. Effect of ATP concentration on S-adenosylmethionine
synthetase acuvty im the presence of 20 mM MgCi;. Enzyme
acuvty was measured as in Fig. 1.

016900