var A

"ay [pmol/min/mg)"*

 

“imes) eM”

Fig. 4 Determunation of the K,, for methionmne of S-adeno-
syimetuonine synthetase mi transformed cell lines denved from
human cheek. Dialyzed cviosolic extracts were prepared and
assayed for 15 mun in 33-320 pM methionine The amount of
proven assayed was 38 wg for the methronine-dependent parent
(P1) and 32 pg for the methionine-ndependent reveriamt (RJ).
Data are presented as a Lineweaver-Burk plo. The sohd hne
for the P) extract 13 drawn for a K,, of 52M anda V,,,, of
47.6 pmol /mun pet mg protein, the sold line for the R1 extract
1s drawn for a K,, of 95 uM and a M,,, of 90.0 pmol/mn per
mg proten

pendent cells had generally comparable specific
activities. For example, extracts of PI cells
{methionine-dependent) did have a lower value of
Vas than the extract of the revertant methionine-
independent Ri cells denved from Pl. but even
the lower value was greater than that of the
methionine-independent WI-38 cells. For both the
tat ceil lines and the PS/R5 human cell lines, there
was no significant difference in the values of V.,,
for methionine-dependent and independent cells.
Thus, it does not appear that methionine-depen-
dent cclls have less S-adenosylmethionine syn-
thetase activity than their methionine-independent
counterparts.

In all of these kinetic experiments, data ob-
tained at methionine concentrations of 1-1000
»M were consistent with a single K,, value for
methionine which ranged from 3-12 «M. There
were no significant differences in the K,, values
for extracts of methicnine-dependent and methio-
nine-ndependent cell lines derived from either rat
or human tissues (Table IND. Thus. one cannot
explain the failure of the transformed cell lines to
grow in Met’ Hcy’ medium in terms of a K,,
defect of the S-adenosylmethionine synthetase.

PUBL ICATIONS

10335940

 

 

275

TABLE 1V

PRODUCT INHIBITION BY 5-ADENOSYLMETHIONINE
(SAM) OF 5-ADENOSYLMETHIONINE SYNTHETASE
ACTIVITY IN EXTRACTS OF METHIONINE-DEPEN-
DENT (PS) AND METHIONINE-INDEPENDENT (R35)
CELLS

 

 

Methiorune 5-Adenosy methionine synthetase activity

Concentration ¢ of control value without SAM) ,

in Assay PS cen extract RS cell extract

(uMy ere Eee
104M 20 pM 104M =. 20M
SAM SAM 5AM SAM
363 170 320 72

21 494 303 173 86

56 - 11 325 166

Reguianon of S-adenosyimethionine synthetase ac-
teity by product inhibition

tt has been shown that S-adenosylmethionine
levels in human erythrocytes are likely to be con-
trolled by feedback inhibition of 5-adeno-
sylmethionine synthetase, where a K, of about 2
p»M for S-adenosylmethionine was measured [16].
The results shown in Table IV demonstrate that
the S-adenosylmethionine synthetase in cultured
cells is also highly inhibited by low concenirations
of the product. There was only a small difference
in the extent of feedback inhibition by S-adeno-
sylmethionine measured between extracts of
methionine-dependent and methionine-indepen-
dent cells and this difference cannot explain the
altered $-adenosylmethionine levels in these cells
{4.7]. It is important to note that the kinetic assays
previously described in Table HE were performed
under conditions where no significant product
inhibition would be obtained.

Discussion

Human and rat ceil lines appear to contain a single
cytosolic S-adenosyimethionine synthetase

The results shown here indicate thal S-adeno-
sylmethonine is synthesized in cultured cells by an
enzyme located primarily in the cytosol which
displays a K,, for methionine of 3-12 pM. No
evidence was obtained for the presence of multiple
enzymes with different kinetic properties suc’ as
those found in normal liver or hepatic tumor tissue

016902