The average amount of variation within the fifteen (15) hogsheads being tested
was 1.1 PPM and the average amount of variation within the fourteen (14)
hogsheads which were produced on the press not being sampled was 1.3 PPM.
Using a 95% confidence interval, the projected amount of variation in the
average Kabat concentration within a hogshead is + 2.4 PPM. This conclusion
is substantiated by: the findings for the average variation of the system which
was applying Kabat. Using the method described above to calculate the
variation within a hogshead, it was noted that the average difference between
the "calculated" hogshead Kabat value and the actual value from a core sample
from the hogshead was - 0.6 PPM (core value was lower). The "calculated"
Kabat values for both sets of hogsheads: (those sampled and not sampled) were
closer to the “projected” values*, with a - 2.0 PPM difference, versus the

hogshead core samples which had a - 2.9 PPM difference (see attachments 6
and 7).

An evaluation of the results generated using the GC method versus the HPLC
method indicated that the results from the GC were an average of 1.9 PPM
higher than results from the HPLC. Nineteen samples from the period between
9/13 and 11/8 were selected for purposes of comparison. All samples were
obtained from hogsheads of Kabat treated flue cured tobacco as it was produced
at the LPF. The data shows that the difference is significantly higher when
results generated by the GC are larger. Above the 10 PPM level for GC
generated results, the average difference between methodologies is 12.0 PPM.
If the two (2) results above 10 PPM are omitted from the evaluation, the
average overall difference drops to 0.7 PPM (see attachment 8).

The conclusions reached in this evaluation pertain only to the Kabat systems,
in their current state, at the LPF. Further testing will be needed if
modifications are made to reduce variation in the systems. In order to verify
the variation in the systems at the other strip processors, it will be
necessary to conduct evaluations on each individual system,

* "Projiected" Kabat values were modified to reflect actual tobacco throughput.

MDY/bjb
Attachments (8)
cc: Bazemore
Bialkowski
Buchanan
Cox
Dandridge
Darrah
Dixon
Dudley
Fenner
Johnson
Lipski
Zinski

On mara

rm eR OPNDDODL

apm s

©
~
an
oO
Fi

FE98STTEZOe