4. Implement a system for performing preventative maintenance and/or
calibration of process equipment which is crucial in the accurate
delivery and application of Kabat.

5. Expand the use and review of documentation currently related to the Kabat
system. Provide a system of accountability for all documentation review
in order to insure prompt attention to problem areas.

6. Contact the Engineering department for assistance in: reducing the
variation (i.e. fixing/repairing automatic control systems or
investigating better measuring/controlling devices).

Discussion:

 

The Kabat sampling/analysis tests were conducted in the period from October
19th through October 24th at the Leaf Processing Facility (LPF). The first
phase of testing was started on October 18th, but because the system ran out
of Kabat during the test, this phase was rescheduled for October 24th.
Sampling was conducted in accordance with the test plan which was issued on
October 9, 1989 (see attachment 1). All samples were analyzed at. the Blended
Leaf (BL) Plant by J. Bazemore using the HPLC method supplied by R&D.

Samples were obtained from Dryer 1 on 10/19 while processing E55K, from Dryer
2 on 10/20 while processing S45K, and from Dryer 3 on 10/23 while processing
S67K. Samples from each dryer were pulled at five (5) minute intervals over a
four (4) hour period in order to determine the variation of each Kabat system.
All dryers were being operated in the standard "manual" mode while the tests
were being conducted. The Kabat flow was set at a rate which was calculated
to achieve a projected Kabat value of 7.5 PPM at a constant tobacco throughput
for each dryer. Calibration checks were performed in order to verify the

actual Kabat flow to each system. The actual Kabat flows were assumed to be
constant throughput each test cycle.

Analysis of the data revealed that Dryer 3 had greater than 50%. more variation
than Dryer 1 or Dryer 2 (2.2 PPM vs. 1.3 and 1.3 PPM respectively). The
average difference between the Kabat values for samples exiting the dryers and
the projected Kabat value was - 1.5 PPM. Further evaluation of the data used
to determine the variation within a hogshead showed the average difference
between actual and projected values to be significantly less when samples were

obtained exiting the dryer versus sampling the hogshead (- 2.0 PPM and
- 2.9 PPM respectively).

In order to determine the amount of variation in the Kabat concentration
within a hogshead, samples were pulled every 30 seconds over a two (2) hour
period from Dryer 2 on 10/24/89 while processing 033K. The dryer was being
operated in the standard "manual" mode while the samples were being obtained.
During the two (2) hour sampling period, samples from each hogshead off the
inside press serving the dryer being tested were also obtained. The Kabat
variation for each hogshead was calculated by averaging the individual "30

second" data points for the time span corresponding to the time each hogshead
was filling.

-

OB9STTEZO2

0769AF