3. Sample data from system/dryer 2 which was used to determine the Kabat
variation within a hogshead also verifies the findings of conclusion #2.
These samples were collected at 30 second intervals over a two (2) hour
period exiting dryer 2.

Kabat
Sample Location _N_ x. Projected Difference Sx 95% C.I.
Exit Dryer 2 240 5.5 7.5 -~ 2.0 1.2 + 2.5
4. Based on a comparison of nineteen (19) hogshead samples analyzed at both

ULT and PM, the average difference between results is 1.9 PPM with a
standard deviation of 3.3 PPM. Excluding two extremely high values, the
average difference is 0.7 PPM with a standard deviation of 1.5 PPM.

5. Using an acceptable operating range of 3 PPM to 10 PPM, the Kabat systems
collectively produced product below the 3 PPM level 3.4% of the time and
above the 10 PPM level 2.0% of the time (based on samples obtained at 5

minute intervals over a 4 hour period exiting each dryer - see
attachments. 2 through 5).

Highlights:

In order to determine the amount of variation in the Kabat concentration
within a hogshead of strip, samples were obtained every thirty (30) seconds
exiting the #2 dryer. The amount of variation in Kabat concentration within a
hogshead appears to be a direct function of the variation of the Kabat
application and process system(s) supplying the product. Since the variation
of systems 1 and 2 are basically the same, product packed solely from either
one or both of these systems can be expected to exhibit the amount of
variation stated however, product packed from system 3 or a combination of
another system and system 3 can be expected to have a higher variation.

The comparison of the two testing facilities and the related methodologies
indicates that a larger difference between results can be expected when the
ULT results are above 10 PPM. When comparing the seventeen (17) results which
tested in the 0.8 to 9.8 range by the GC method, ULT’s results were an average
of 0.7 PPM higher than the PM results. Including the two results which tested
above 10 PPM at ULT raises the average difference to 1.9 PPM.

Recommendations:

 

Ll. Continue to follow the sampling plan which went into effect at the

beginning of the Burley processing season - sample product exiting each
dryer once an hour while Kabat is being applied.

2. Perform similar types of tests at all strip processors who apply Kabat in
order to determine the variation of each system.

3. Utilize the results of this evaluation to set fkemporary operating

parameters in order to maintain the minimum Kabat concentrations
prescribed.

0769AF

6S9STTEz02