¢ Consumer Relations - If smokers contact our Consumer Relations Department by
phone conceming a product flaw, we confirm that they are of legal smoking age in
their state and ask them to return all the flawed product to us. We only replace
returned product, where allowed by law. If these smokers have not contacted us
recently about a product flaw, we may also give them 2-4 packs of gratis product.
However, their names are not added to our database for marketing purposes.

---In-addition, unlike other companies that use direct marketing, we do not add names to

our database that are collected via telephone.. If a person contacts Consumer
Relations by phone and asks to be addad to our mailing list, we do the following:

- Confirm that the person is a smoker, ,

   

.- Ask for the person's date of

- If they are under 21, we terminate the call; and,
- If they are over 21, we send them a smoker certification form.

- When we receive the completed certification and determine that the person
meets our certification requirements, we add them to our list.

Consumer Relations also supports service desks for both WINSTON Winners Club
and Joe's V.I.P. Club (CAMEL). Smokers 21 years of age or older who have
submitted a signed smoker certification can join these clubs.

If a club member calls one of our service desks, we confirm their name, address, birth
date, and personal identification number (as listed on their membership card). If the
smoker provides us with an updated address, we change the information on our
database. If the smoker informs us of a name change or wants to correct their birth
date due to a data entry or consumer error, we mail them a new smoker certification
form to complete and retum. — : : :

The bottom line is that we want our list to only contain smokers who are 21 years of age
or older and who want to receive mailings from us. All of our policies and procedures are
designed to achieve this objective. :

  

Geography

 

We fully comply with all federal, state, and local restrictions that affect various types of
Direct Marketing programs. The Tax and Legal Departments continuously monitor these
restrictions and update summaries for the Direct Marketing Group. DMG distributes the
summaries to the Brand Business Units on a regular basis.

Washington DC smokers are not mailed unless they have joined a Direct Marketing club
(e.g., WINSTON Winners or Joe's VIP). If they are a club member, they only receive
mailings pertaining to that club. If DC smokers order a premium, they can be fulfilled with
that premium; but they are not eligible to receive other mailings, including solicitations to
join clubs.

 

   
 
  

POSE PBeTS