All third party name vendors must comply with the signature document storage
guidelines provided by the RJR Direct Marketing Group.

Beginning with smoker names collected by vendors in 1995, RJR will only buy the
names of smokers who have signed the standard smoker certification.

After January 1, 1996, only smokers for whom we have a signed smoker certification
on file can be sent any Direct Marketing mailings other than the "blind" Corporate
-Rescreen............. a wet tees Ee

Name Generation - The names (and other demographic information) of smokers on
our list have been custom generated by us or specifically for us per our specifications
by third party vendors. We do not buy prior existing lists from third parties that have
not been screened for smoking and age, e.g., magazine subscriber lists. Be

To further ensure the integrity of our smokers-only database, we reject any names
from third party vendors that do not include any Usual Brand information. Also, we do
not add incremental smoker names to the database that are generated via
sweepstakes programs because the prize could be a powerful incentive for some to
provide false information about their age or smoking status. :

Offers - As previously noted, we only send sample product to smokers on our list for
whom we have a signed smoker certification on file, subject to state/ocal restrictions.
Coupons and proofs-of-purchase offers involve the purchase of cigarettes at retail.

Our "Support The Law" program actively discourages the sale of cigarettes to anyone

under the legal smoking age.

Mailings - It is obvious from the multiple markings on the outside of all our mailings
that they are intended for a smoker 21 years of age or older and are from a tobacco
company. We do this for a reason; we want to make it easy for parents to intercept
our mailings in the unlikely event that an underage person has misrepresented his
actual age in the sign-up and/or certification process.

Further, all of our mailings contain a simple instruction on how to remove oneself from
our mailing list. Our intent is to influence the brand choice of adults 21 years of age
or older who choose to smoke. If mail to a person who is not 21 years of age or older
is intercepted, the parents can easily remove a name from our mailing list. In fact, we
want them to contact us. ,

Also, as a member of the Direct Marketing Association, we periodically try to
determine if smokers who have not responded to our mailings are on the DMA
Preference List. The DMA Preference List contains the names of people who have
contacted the DMA and asked that their names be removed from the Mailing lists of
all direct marketers. If we identify a smoker on our list who is also on the DMA list,
we remove them from our database.

Finally, smokers who do not respond to any programs over an extended period of
time are either removed from the active database or rescreened to verify smoker
information. Smokers who do not respond to the "blind" rescreen are eventually
removed from the active database. In this way, smokers not interested in our offers
are culled from our list as a matter of practice.

 

€99€ P8OCS