AYE Hon OSDIR BERRA RRR NS ee EBs tee EAI RRO ety ona bay sane SNL

RJR DIRECT MARKETING
POLICIES/PROCEDURES

List Management

The following outlines the steps taken by RJR to reduce, to the point of elimination, the
likelihood that someone under 18 (the legal age to smoke in virtually all states) will
receive product or promotional items from us through the mail.

¢ -Minimum Age - It is important to remember.that we only mail.to smokers who are 21
years of age or older. We do not mail to smokers of legal age who are younger than
21, ie., smokers who are 18-20 years of age. We think this builds in a margin of
safety.

In addition, we attempt to verify the age of 21-24 year old smokers on our list using _
two independent third-party sources. We do this quarterly. The third party vendors
have established strict matching criteria which ensures the quality of the matches. -
When a name is matched by an outside source, the smoker's record is flagged as
verified. Those names sent but not matched are flagged as sent. Any smokers
determined by the third party sources to be less than 21 years of age are immediately
removed from our list. Those names confirmed to be over 21 and those who are not
found at all in the independent databases are retained in our database.

¢ Smoker Certification - We believe that our mailing list only contains smokers who are
21 years of age or older. We mail these smokers coupons and our own brand
preference screeners. However, we only mail sample product. and promotional items

to people who have signed a form that certifies:

 

- They are a smoker,
- They are 21 years of age or older; and,
- They want to receive offers from us.

Our certification regimen is the most strict in the tobacco industry. We require a
smoker to actively insert his or her birth date on the certification form. We feel this
added involvement is another way of making the smoker sensitive to what he or she
is doing. :

Further, our form paints out that giving false information in order to take advantage of
an offer may constitute a crime (mail fraud). We think that most people are honest,
but this reminder provides an additional safeguard.

All screeners, comment cards, MGM's, order forms, and other communication that
ask a smoker to respond include the standard smoker certification — certification
copy, signature line, and birth date line.

Our system is designed to allow us to quickly retrieve a smoker's signed certification.
We have a seven year retention policy for smoker certifications. Typically, we can
retrieve certifications signed within the past 12 months in 48 hours — no more than 10
working days upon request. Older certifications may take longer to retrieve -- about
three weeks. Routine audits are conducted to test our certification storage/retrieval
procedures.

Z99E ¥S8OzZS