ihasinseienbntenNGciN iscsi AS ca eat heen antnee abinnBR bso eat ECONO DNR EDM DIS a Te oo Gwe ae nadie iatratansaisadoa det

Household Composition

For households with multiple smokers, we consider Household Composition in
determining mailfile specifications. When designing the specifications, we consider the
following situations: '

® When a mailing has different cells of smokers (e.g., Franchise & Competitive) with
different offers, we generally want to send the same offer to all smokers in the same
household. Sending a more lucrative offer to the competitive smoker in a household
could alienate the franchise smoker in that household. In this scenario, the mailing
universe may be specified as follows:

- Smokers living in Franchise-only households receive a less lucrative offer.

i

- Smokers living in Competitive-only households receive a more lucrative offer.

- Franchise and Competitive smokers living in the same household receive the same
offer. The appropriate offer to send smokers in these type of households is .
determined by Brand Marketing. .

e Ifamailing is only going to Competitive smokers, household composition is still an
issue. Generally, we do not want to mail to a competitive smoker who lives with a
franchise smoker.

For example, if WINSTON is mailing to Marlboro smokers and a Marlboro smoker
lives with a WINSTON smoker, the likelihood that the Marlboro smoker will participate
in the offer is slim. More likely, the Marlboro smoker will pass the offer to the -
WINSTON smoker who will participate in the offer. Therefore, in an effort to increase
Competitive participation, those Competitive smokers who live with a promoted Brand
smoker are generally excluded from the mailing. In order to protect full price brands,
competitive Savings mailings generally exclude households with RJR Franchise

 

smokers in them.

Promoted Brand Exclude Households with These Smokers
WINSTON WINSTON

CAMEL CAMEL

SALEM SALEM

VANTAGE VANTAGE

MORE MORE

NOW NOW

DORAL ALL RJR

MONARCH ALL RJR

w
N
Ss :
oo
ad
w
n
an
“