mem FH by sak emis sete

{eT AOI Ba ot eC He ew MO ROR FN Het Ao 8

er St rT

2
hens eens ee HE

iim eee ont

2r. Enbert Strauss
Page 2
December 21, 1977

each year to an amount equal to 1.8%. ef the total
Japanese cigarette market. A queta is slse placed an
exzeh brand giving it an arbitrary part of the tetal .
import qnota. We believe the market for cup brands is
Bany times in excess of the arbitrary quote.

in addition, JTS limits distribution ef imported cigarettes
to 4 maximum of only 32.2%. of ali retsil outlets. in Japan.
4t tbe retszil outlets JTG seta both the retail price and
the retailer's profit wargin. The retail price for
imported cigarettes ax set by JTS renges from 73%. to
117% higher than prices. for. Japanese prodaced cigarettes,
yet the retail profit wargius fized by JTS arc only 7%.
on imported cigarettes us compared ta 19%. on Japanese.
brands. The relatively higher retail price for imported
cigarettes combined with the relatively Iower srofit
margan to the retailer on szies of imported cigarettes
ig 2 strong disincentive ta the retailer against stacking
imported cigarettes.

JTS permits advertising of our cigarettes oniy in
English language nedi2 and prohibit# us from promoting
our brands directly ta consumers.

Baged of the appreciation of the. yen ag compared ia the
adollar, the "cartage and freight" price which we bilT
for our product. haa ftncreased 23%. since 1568. During
the same .fime period the retail prices set for JS on
eur cigarette brands in the Japanese nerket have incressed
32.5%. Af the same time, JTS will purchase our cigarettes
only at. a% price which is roughly 10%. less than our sormsl
price om 2n FAS hasie. Recause of the combination of

the low purchase price and the fixed high retail price/iov
Fretsil profit margin, the JTS carmus. <« profit. Onde
of our cigagreties of about 100%. This is an

high profit margin fer handling cigarettes on the ioter-
national warket.

We believe it is in the besi interest. of the United
States te persnade Japan to cease ita arbitrary quotas
and restrictiong on the importation apd merketing of
United States cigareties. In particular, the United
States should urge Japan to (1) terminate conpletely
its quota on importation of Tf. S. cigarettes and
limitations on distribution ta retail outiets;

TIFL 0524465

=
S
Z
S
_—
i
A
mn
Nn
Ue

 

f
i
i
zB

4 sewn ss
temperment

 

ert norm heer ge | em rap pesmi ms nag + are my ently nes emeREYE (run ere FREY

 

 

4

eee a REE nieE LA reevteaeteAi nett eg hi Ie