216 !ONOPHORES AND ELECTROPHOTOLUMINESCENCE

Some of the merits of the method are the following : 1) the
use of a natural (biological) membrane, with all its consequences
including comparison to other functional effects of ionophores
within the same system, (II) microsecond time resolution, (III)
the use of low ion concentrations, (IV) the possibility to study
voltage dependence of ionophore action.

I. INTRODUCTION

A number of compounds, known as ionophores (we use the term
in its general sense, to include both carriers and channels) have
been found to mediate ion transfer through membranes [20,21].
Their structure is usually well known, and the kinetic and
mechanistic details of their action have been extensively
investigated [£15-17,19-24] in both artificial model systems and
biological membranes. In the former, electrochemical methods
have prevailed, while in the latter the submicroscopic dimensions
of most entities of interest (chloroplasts, chromatophores,
mitochondria, retinal rods) prevented the application of standard
electric measurement techniques; the action of ionophores has
therefore been assessed indirectly, by their functional effects.
Conversely, much has been learnt about energy transduction
£19,21-25] and even structural details [14] of these natural
membranes, from studies involving ionophores. The interpretation
of the results has been based upon the (usually tacit) assumption
that one can extrapolate ionophore behaviour in artificial
bilayer membranes to the biological case. Due to the higher
complexity cf the latter, it is not obvious that this can be
done, although only little information on essential discrepancies
exists [14] . Our contention is not that such extrapolation is
incorrect, but rather that some efforts should be made to devise
hetter methods for ionophore studies in biological membranes, by
possibly making use of the special properties of such systems as
compared to the artificial ones.

We describe here an approach based on the optical monitoring
of a strongly ion-conductivity dependent phenomenon induced
within a biological system. The membrane chosen is the
photosynthetic (thylakoid) one, due to its special features, and
in particular its inclusion of functional pigments that can act
as kinetically competent intrinsic optical probes for fast
electrical events. The phenomenon under study is electrophoto -
luminescence (3,5,8,12,27] , the mechanism of which is outlined
in the theoretical section.

50574465