IONOPHORES AND ELECTROPHOTOLUMINESCENCE 225

The ion selectivity we obtain for valinomycin is Rb Cs K Na
Li, similar to Eisenman sequence II [21-23] and to the results
of Junge and Schmid on chloroplasts [16, 24] . It should be noted
that the Ktywat selectivity ratio is found to be only about one
to two orders of magnitude, as compared to about four for
artificial membranes [22,23] .

6. Other ionophores

In line with our interpretation of ionophore-induced EPL
changes, the electrically silent carboxylic ionophores nigericin
(+K) and monensin (+Na) induced very little or no alterations in
the emission. FCCP, on the other hand did diminish EPL, in a pH
dependent way.

DISCUSSION

The results presented above, together with more data that
could not be included here by lack of space, lend strong support
to the method of monitoring EPL changes as new means to assess
ionophore action in chloroplastic blebs, i.e. ina natural
membrane. Some of the information obtained (kinetic differences
between carriers and channels, ionic selectivities) is already
of interest, but we believe that the possibilities opened are
even more important. For example : (a) the system seems ideally
suited for the study of voltage dependence of ionophore action,
by variation of either the external field intensity or the EPL
detection polarization angle, the latter related to the local
field dependence of emission polarization, due to the preferen -
tial chlorophyll orientation and a phenomenon of electroselection
in the membrane [10]. (b) The possibility to compare various
functional effects of the ionophores within the same system is an
obvious methodological advantage. The use of EPL extends this com
parison into the ps range.

In conclusion, the present paper is mostly meant to be a
methodological one, stressing the merits of the proposed approach
and reporting the experimental results mainly in order to ,
illustrate its feasibility.

Acknowledgements : We thank Michal Neeman for participation in
some of the experiments. This work was partly supported by the
US-Israel Binational Science Foundation (BSF) Jerusalem, Israel.
R.K. is an incumbent of the Association of Friends of the
Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel Career Development Chair.

REFERENCES

1. Akoyunoglou, G., editor (1981) "Photosynthesis" - Proc. 5th
Internat. Congress on Photosynthesis, vol. I (Photophysical
Processes and Membrane Energization) .Balaban International
Science Services, Philadelphia.

2. Alpes, H., Apell, H.J., Bamberg,E., Benz, R., Janko,K.,Lauger

B., Stark, G. (1979) in : Light Induced Charge Separation in
Biology and Chemistry, edited by G. Gerischer and J.J. Katz,

50574474