| HK#C916039
Iv. INITIATING VERSUS DEVELOPMENTAL INFLUENCES

General Comments

It is obviously difficult to separate influences on the initiation
of cardiovascular diseases and tnose which affect the development of such
diseases once they are established.

This is especially true where recognition and classification of the
disease occur only after other symptoms exist, as is usually the case.

As might be expected, there is no hard and fast rule or universally
consistent clinical opinion on this matter. It is clear that individuals
differ in response to smoking and to their deprivation from the habit.

Further research may conceivably indicate that a sufficiently high
percentage of those with established degrees of cardiovascular disorders will
react so unfavorably to smoking as to justify medical advice on certain coursed
of restrictive action. This, however, is properly a matter of relationship
between the individual doctor and his patient. The desired situation is one
which will involve es broad and comprehensive knowledge as can possibly be
acquired to guide the profession in the light of its clinical experience.

The references appended will present opinions which are based on
such experience. They should be considered as being contributory rather than
conclusive and as being selected for purposes of comparison.

The important point is that more refined and sophisticated
longitudinal studies of controlled populations of apparently normal individuals
are sorely needed. These should aid in refining our recognition of departures
from normalcy which represent the earliest evidence of the diseases under
study and which, therefore, may be closely connected with their origin.

Similarly, manipulable populations of patients with established
early cardiovascular diseases should provide material for more sophisticated
clinical studies of factors which may influence the progress and course of
these diseases.

Until such studies are organized and bear fruit we shall have to
be content with a type of evidence which leaves doubt as to whether we are
dealing with factors which influence origin alone, progressive development
alone, or both.

Ocular, Cerebral and Other
Peripheral Circulation

According to Bettman, Fellows, et al., the effect of cigarette
smoking on intraocular blood volume in man is net known. ‘They have, therefore,
used animals for experimentation.

If the cigarette was smoked at the normal rate there was no
effect. If it was smoked rapidly there was a significant rise in intraocular
volume. Denicotinized cigarettes gave generally similar results.