-k - HKBO946042

_ Travell and collaborators have shown that the normal enhancement
by nicotine, of coronary artery blood flow in the isolated rabbit heart is not
found in atherosclerotic rabbit hearts. A similar difference in the effects
of norepinephrine was also observed.

Bellet and collaborators have reported that daily intramuscular
injections of nicotine bitartrate, in a delayed absorption medium, into
mongrel dogs vas followed by @ gradual increase in mean serum cholesterol

levels, which attained a peak at the end of four weeks ani was maintained for
two more. There was no change in mean serum triglycerides.

Haag and collaborators have subjected weanling rats to cigarette
smoke inhalation at half hour intervals, fourteen times a day for practically
their entire life span, with two groups of controls. ‘The smoked animals had
the same average life span as controls, slightly lesser weight and the same .
Prevailing blood pressures during non-exposure periods despite brief elevations
in blood pressure imediately after smoking. The authors point out "the need
for writers in this field to describe in sufficient detail the materials and
techniques employed in their work to allow reasonable comparisons with other
animal studies of similar nature, and with the conditions existing in human

Angina
Most authors agree that emoking is rarely, if ever, a precipitating
factor in angine pectoris.

Conn and Kissane (1958) and Green and Borousch (1960) as well as
Master (1956) all recommend a discriminatory point of view based upon study
of the individual angina patient as the proper determiner of the nature of
advice to be given him.

Buerger's Disease - Raynaud's Disease

In Raynaud's disease, restriction of tobacco does not appear to
influence morbidity according to Gifford (1958), There is some evidence
according to Peacock (1958) that mental stress -- at times associated with
menopause or childbirth -- is an etiological factor in 50% of 42 cases, In
the other 21 cases "no such etiological factors could be detected." Smoking
is not mentioned.

It may also be noted that Barnett and Boake (1960) observed no
consistent change in blood flow of the calf in legs of six adult males
affected by atherosclerosis.

An abstract by Abramson (1963) of a recent book on Buerger's
Disease by DeBakey and Cohen reviewing World War II cases, states that "the
relationship between smoking and the etiology of the disease was not sufficiently
clearcut to be conclusive.” It further mentions that “the study did not
support the impression that ebstinence from smoking caused amelioration of
symptoms or a decrease in the necessity for amputation.”