-2- HKB0946040

In one rare arterial disease (thromboangiitis obliterans-
avteriosclerosis obliterans) prognosis is improved (Boake and Barnet) by
abstinence from tobacco. In atherosclerotic patients with intermittent
claudication, there was no effect of smoking on the blood flow of the calf
or foot. Abramson found no evidence that smoking affected progression of
this disease. Selveag et al. report similar results in Norway.

Hypertension

There is little evidence that smoking causes hypertension.

Actually D’Alonzo found that in employees of the E. I. DuPont de
Nemours and Co. there was a higher prevalence of hypertension in non-smokers
than in smokers. Hines finds no effect of smoking on the resting blood
pressure. Similar results are reported by Hitchens.

lower prevailing levels of blood pressures in smokers as
compared with non-smokers have been reported by & number of investigators.
Among these may be mentioned two papers by Brown et al. in England; a paper
by Orma et al. and one by Karvonen, Orma et al. in Finland; and two by
Blackburn et al. in the United States.

Cholesterol Levels

This is of course a subject on which there is a voluminous literature.
According to various authors cholesterol levels ‘appear to be affected by a
number of factors such as diet, heredity, age, sex, stress and smoking.

Sufficiently well-planned and sophisticated clinical atudies to
analyze these variables or even to establish an adequate baseline of "normalcy"
for range of cholesterol levels by age and sex sre conspicuous by their
absence.

Since there is no apparent consistent relationship between amount
of smoking (Konttinen et al., Orma et al., Page et al.) and changes in
cholesterol level, it would seem that no final conclusions are wise at this
time.

On the other hand, there is sufficient evidence of a relationship
between smoking and cholesterol level in certain individuals and in certain
groups to offer a most intriguing field for further studies. For example,
could the type and/or the degree of change in cholesterol levels be better
analyzed by the use of smoking vs. non-smoking as a possible differential
factor during the lifetime of various individuals observed under established
and controlled conditions? Might not such observations help to analyze some
of the individual host responses to the different factors which influence
cardiovascular diseases?

Rather than over-organize the reports of research in the field
of cholesterol levels, there are included references to and excerpts from a
number of papers not specifically mentioned in this brief discussion, and yet
of possible interest in connection with it.