79 - HKBO94604:

In recent years there has been some debate as to whether Buerger's
Disease is really a clinical entity distinct from peripheral vascular |
atherosclerosis. McKusick, with the aid of a Tobacco Industry Research
Committee grant, has made a nev study of this disease among young men in an
Oriental country, where 1t is relatively more prevalent than in the United
States, and has concluded that the syndrome as encountered there is distinct
from generalized atherosclerosis or eibolism of the peripheral vasculature.
While all the sixty-two patients he observed were smokers, the study suggested
strongly that the etiology and pathogenesis of the disease are probably
complex and indicated that it still remains to be proved whether the essential

lesion is truly an angiitis.

Miscellaneous Specific Relationships

Bing and his associates have, as previously mentioned, studied
smoking and coronary blood flow, myocardial oxygen consumption, cardiac output
and ischemia in normal patients and in those with coronary disease. Their
results indicate no seriously deleterious effects but should be evaluated by

firsthand study of the papers.

Freund (1957) shows no change in arterial or venous lactic acid,
and Rehder and Roth (1959) no rise in the level of festing blood sugar or in
epinephrine-like substances of venous blood following smoking.

Bellet and collaborators have reported that nicotine infusion
into dogs produces an increase in the fibrinolytic activity of their blood
plasms. Human subjects are now being studied similarly. ‘

No Acieterious effect on ascorbic acid metabolism following smoking
could be found by Taber and Larson (19%62) in contrast to reports by McCormick.

Coagulability of blood was not affected by smoking according to
Blackburn et'al. (1959).

Davidge (1955), having studied 92 consecutive cases of myocardial
infarction, stated, "there appears to be no relationship between the use of
cigarettes and the occurrence of mortality” from that disease.

A conservative evaluation of smoking was made by Hunt (1956) who
said, "it is hard to believe that si in moderation alvays makes coronary
disease worse." Ellis and Hancock (1957) believe that "a physician should
evaluate very carefully how important it is to restrict (by forbidding smoking)
the happiness of 8 patient (coronary artery disease) who is already limited

in so many ways.

Keys (1955) is much more assertive. He states, "I believe there
is already evidence at hand to disprove the hyrotheeis that smoking has an
important primary effect in the development of coronary heart disease;" and
Hellerstein and Ford (1957), ine paper on rehabilitation of the cardiac
patient, say that "the categorical denial of tobacco to all patients must be
condemed vigorously... Most patients with heart disease can smoke safely
without apparent harm.”