HKBO946044

Atherosclerosis

Studies on the possible relation between smoking and atherosclerosis
have been included in several of the groups of excerpts which are being
forwarded.

It will be well to repeat the recommendation that evidence for or
ageinst etiological effects should be carefully distinguisL:d from that
bearing on progress of the already established diseases. Both aspects are
important but their implications may be quite distinct and different in
evaluating the potentialities and form of action of any suspected agent of
habit such as smoking.

In this connection, Baltin comments on aggravation of coronary
disease and Calataynd et al. on factors in its origin, in a population of
Trappist monks.

As a mitter of possible interest, a suggestion that density of
population among the birds and mammals in the Philadelphia Zoological Gardens
has been the main factor in a marked increase in coronary disease recorded at
autopsy has been made by Ratcliffe. Although obviously smoking habits can be
ignored, the possible bearing of this theory on human urbanizatidn or over-
crowding is worth mention in passing.

Animal Experiments Involving
Nicotine Administration

The question whether repetitive small absorptions of nicotine » in
view of its rapid elimination and metabolism, can produce any persisting
effects, has been mentioned elsewhere. Several animal investigations have
been conducted with a view to determining whether superposition of nicotine
administration upon an atherogenic diet would modify or accelerate the
development of arterial disease.

Wenzel has reported such studies on rabbits and hens, with use of
high cholesterol diets to which graded doses of nicotine were added up to
the "equivalent of two packs of cigarettes daily." The nicotine addition
aid not affect body weight, serum cholesterol Levels y lipid phosphorus or
gross aortic atherosclerosis, Electrocardiograpnic changes under ergonovine
stress, were at first regarded as indicating more extensive pathologic | changes,
However, omission of ergonovine use in stress-testing the animals in vivo,
virtually eliminated any anatomic difference between nicotine-treated and and
untreated animals, observable on autopsy. Hence the resuits appear to be
equivocal,

; Later experiments by Wenzel are reported as showing no effect
of nicotine administration upon plasma cholesterol, Lipid phosphorus or e/p
ratios at higher cholesterol administration levels, but a significant incresse
by nicotine of these plasma components when dietary cholesterol was relatively
low,

Because of the artificial nature of these rabbit experiments, and
the doubtful analogy between atherosclerosis in man and such induced athero-
sclerosis in rodents, the interpretation of theese results in terms of human
experience is difficult.