FEB 26 92 13:58 MOCRARN PUBLIC AFFAIRS ' PASE. ©

mp MIL ren peering

Ww OR K IN GC (nee eepeeonennconae

’

Sh
ee
9
“a

 

By Robi , Bafoty and Hoalth Adminisieation to ngulato work. said Richard M rer, amoking enforcomont oMeor fi
+ By Robin Rehats : place snioking, apeelally afer an: Environmental the Suffutk health do artment *

a ronmontal tobacco amoko .« Class A onrelnogen, plas oxpcect to other poople's amoke. Undor Now Yor

ey fob roan ene ee iiereeeow ing it among rogulaled workplace harards itke bon. City lawe, A tostaurant workor could ash to be ar-

And it mado hiv cough ao much ahe brought up £14, formaldehyde and asboeioa. sigaed to a no-amoking sectibn in an ostablishment

bind, Pablitker a." Now,aflcracvonionthzonthe “Somothing fa very Hkely to como out of OBILA,” with 60 oF more seate. Dut that wouldn't help Pub.
Job ths dl-yoar-old -ctaurant mauagur and ¢ook auf. saya Cliff Deugias, tobawo policy director ofthe Adve Nokor, who walks around hor reataurant,

for. Pom & conMlar: nlening cough and frequent oaey Institute in Washington.. \C., 0 pre-conaiumer A aay hy rnamarrhors at tho University of Califor

Upp cepieetory alls tte, group. “The biggur quosticn is when antiwhat fait nieat Loloy Leal your sald restaurant envirohmon:

; you,” Publisher auld. “Buy gulitg to look ts." tal tobacco amoke oxposute was three to five Umes

. N O.SOONER DID BETTY PUBLICKER stare ’oloolion Agency report Jate last yoar declared anvi- Evon 90, bome omployoos find themaalves regularly

 

  
    

 

 

She seaoke deg el
ifyou war woth ctauranta (here is noching —-Soen Alor tbo BPA report came out, then-Sacre-  bighor than in a typleal workplace. The report anid

youcand. = 0 i tary of Labor fgiin Martin ordered OSHA to bogin  waltrenana In Onlifornia had the highest mortality of

Things b° “aen much better fi + ward -  btudying post's reguiaticn of envinynmuntd ichao any fornale cocupation thers, with four ttmee the ox:
sorta a bt “aleve firm who ors wintied to het 00 amoke. OSHA «: mean Jit Foster said tho pected lung cancer Toortalily and 244 times. the. que
aupor . admintetraters wo amokod in aganey wag grill welghing optiona for aush rogvlotiona — pocted heart dlacase Mortality rate...

open ares, “0 of eyeeme APO Inahy com-
tho city's law. Tho om: . . anios that profess to

pluyww, whu eultern frum
severe bronchitis and al.
‘oreteaymiptons, aald abo
got_no reajeonad from the

Trae manngomont av!

sho fied numerous com-
Jalnte with the oily
Prealth Depatiacat'
or cuployer was
fland and socditiann bmn.
Provec aomowlal,, but
soon after, hor les firm
bogan interrogat'ig: atn-
ployons to tdeucid tho
complatnor, ahs said: Bie
attributes her paltry
tale, doapite a good rv
Views, her whietloblow:

White privalo-asotor.
workore in ¥7 atatea, fis-
stlucing Now York, are
prineetad: to vac ing de.
areca from breathing
KUMOORC. ciso's smoke,

 

, grity.” anid Da

vo a polley, and at the
corporate lovel, covery:
thing is fino,” said Dun.
na Bhimp, a founder of
Ravironmentel Improve.
ment Aasasclates, a not-
for profit Now Jeracy
group that conaulla on
workplace emoklig poll-
ke mat ohton, cur; mai
polities go. unonforced,
whe paid "

8himp won her own
ntaotting onse tn

076 against New Jorecy
!, when a slate court
tuled sho was oniltied toa
smoke-froo environment.
Once someone tes
named to hoad OSHA
smoking regulation “will
be & roAmnably top wl.
vi Ine

deck. acting director of

 Pudlic Citlzon Littgation:
a 9 ; : wees Group, which hae eve.
Toa" eg Ee Co cosafuly sued OSILA to.
main val ‘ eroond: Botte Pub’ - > choeses to work in Stestaurart but is bothered by ai the cigarette amo. ..:hero. foron roguiation of other:
Reve. Oke begaysn Soot oe he cara, 6 . n
thei cays. sdiagbey the law oz becau- + ihey work for new Labor Secriany Robort Reich, whohasyetto The chief iabaeco lodustey lobby, fhe Tobsov Irate,
Inigin the con't covered. select a new OBY/ shigh 2” tute, hae lambasted the EPA's study ae “bad seletice."":
Ol 6, he “Te pr.dubly tho most ubiquitous = Mosnwhile, New Yo: havo had a aye ~ Tobaceo Institute apokoaman Thomas Lausla anid:
toris airy sody ip exposed to..’ anit Stanton Glanty, ottong state law, as weil ae ordinances in New York that 12 out of 14 atudics on workplace stacking don't
profiancr Af medicine ot tho University of California City and Neossou County thet confine workplace show an dic onsed hoalin rlak, "
at Ban Franclaco, who anys that aatiinates of 63,006 arnoking to specified lovntions. The tobacco industry advocates aocommodatin
deaths a.yoor from broathing orvtronurenta! tobaceo,,. Sut there are still numorous “omplainta. annaltiva nonanickore through .@ combination of rool
amoke are prouably too eonsorvatlts. in County, for eanmpio, complaints about ventilation and don!gnated nonsmoking areaa,, |
Tho fovoral government does not regulate coviton: viclations of the slalo’s Olean Indoor Air Act have. - But come nonamo ing advocates aay tis only work-/ .
mental tobacco -amoke as a workplooy lara Thiel  teuely doubled 60 Between 30 and 40 calla A month’ able approach would bo for OSHA to ban emoking
on!

thany pocs'o = ovan in
proieciod states — ro-

      

CESPLTTZO0e

  
 

could change acon, however, singe the RPA report waa relensed. Moat problema and - , I
Proasure da mounting Ga the faderal Occupational gelved y Nau YY mg gblisations, "You can’t get all the load out of a battory Mitwry, +
. . vey v} 4 ¥ f] wy z ine . “ vs

 

PERE ee ap een nD
RS —_seeee