SS SSO Oe OOO
j PRECISION -) mace man MICROS TAT *.usrarown MICROFILWM
ito—
Phot <> 12”.
Ah Ss . . ° : 1

eo 0 SMOR Te ee . ‘ . - ee eee oe

— - '
, ° COPY , ’

 

OFFICE MEMORANDUM

. an . LENNEN & MITCEEEL, TNC. : .

10-24-29
From: Mr.Cox
“. Subject; OLD GOLD
. To: Mr.Lennen ;
Br .MitchelL
Mr.Lynn
Mr,Pietsch

°

The New York University amoke analysis is beginning to Look bright.
Tne crigineal analysis turned out quite unfavorably for Old Gold.
But it led to a discovery which explains the resulta, and vy which,
to all indications, Old Gold can easily produce the best "bill of
health” of all four brands.

This observation is almost absurdly simple, yet it has never been
noted as far as Professor MacTavish can learn, in any of the
scientific literature on the cigarette. Tt is the fact that the
angunt of motsture present in the tobacco —- br to put it another
way - the "freshness" of the cigarette — controls the quantity of
irritating substances formed during combustion. The dryer the
cigarette, the more irritating. And a difference in the amount
of moisture, which would be imperceptible to the amoker, cen
violently effect the results of an analysis.

MacTavish deduced this fact from a atudy of the results of his
first test. But to prove it he made a simple test of the smoke
from the four cigarettes under controlled moisture conditions
and by adding only 2% to Old Gold's moisture was able to make
it show up much better than any cigarette in the original test.

Te reason for thia powerful influence of moisture on the amount
ef irritants formed is apparentiy that the butt end of the ciga=
rette (when the tobacco is relatively moist or "rreah") acts aa

.a condenser and withholds some of the natural irritants from
passing into the throat.

But before discussing the possibilities of using this observation
to Old Gold's advantage, it would be best to review the original
analyais of the four cigarettes. The four brands were bought at
. the same time at the United Cigar Store in the Grand Central Sta+
° tion, and the dealer told Professor MacTavish that they had ail
been received that morning fron the wholesalcr. Premunaply they
were equally fresh. But you will observe in the results a con=
siderable difference in moisture contont.

These arg the highlights of the original smoke analyals: Oo
4 J : -
7 , ‘ ot 3
mo - aD
. uo 4 - . Oo -
‘ : a
ele nel oe we
© ON&

*
-
a