rather close average impacts were obtained. One pair (IMP/2 and IMP/3)
received essentially identical numbers. Wood blames this on rather large
ranges of nicotine contents within each blend due to variations in the
original grades. In three instances, the nicotine contents of adjacent
blends overlap.

Panel tests were conducted at Millbank with eight panel members, and a
different scoring method was-used. Adjacent pairs were scored by the
amount of difference noted: 0 is no difference, 1/2 for j.n.d. and 1

if a clearly detectable difference was found. IMP/1 was given a reading
of 0 and the other eight standards built up from this point by adding
the scores each adjacent pair received. IMP/9, the highest impact, had
a score of 5 1/2. Again the pair IMP/2 and IMP/3 were considered to have
the same impact.

Generally, the standards follow the predicted pattern: Increases in
nicotine delivery produce increases in impact. Deviations are attributed
to variation in blend nicotine contents. However, since the nicotine
contents and panel] results from two adjacent standards, IMP/2 and IMP/3
are essentially the same, 1 see no merit in using both of these as impact
standards.

Wood's standards are indeed an improvement over the previous market-place
standards. No doubt R&DE will use them and report impact numbers on

the new scale. This can be very confusing unless we are all fully aware
‘of the new system. For example, en impact reading of 6 on the new scale
was approximately 2 by the old method.

Tins of the new standards are available from R&DE and should be obtained
for our evaluation. A first step would be to determine whether B&W
panels can perceive differences similar to those reported by Wood.
Pending the results of these evaluations and the status of our internal
developmental work, a decision can be made concerning BéW's adoption

of these standards.

B R&D Development of Impact Standard:

Our approach has been to develop a series which will be as close to U.S.
commercial cigarettes as possible, i.e., a blended, cased, filter cigarette.
Internal evaluations indicate that the impact sensation can be controlled
by the addition of incremental levels of a single additive to a standard
cased blend.

Currently used tobacco blends, and modifications thereof, were screened

to find a specific blend which would serve as an upper limit for impact.
Unmentholated KOOL 84 seems to suffice. Of the additives that were found
to give the desired effects of reduction in impact without a noticeable
change in taste characteristics, lactic acid was selected for further study.

continued - > -

599100121