Research Department

MEMORANDUM September 2, 1971

NEW_IMPACT STANDARDS /715 MEV LoD

A new series of impact standards has been developed and recently reported
by R&DE, Southampton(!), Although the Southampton approach was expected
to be an improvemant over the chemical standards, we felt that BéW's needs
would still not be met by these new standards. Consequently, we have been
pursuing the development of our own series. Preliminary results are quite
encouraging.

This memo covers my comments on the Southampton Report and the status of
our developmental work.

O6-R

  

Ad Comments on R&DE Report Ri

Jeremy Wood's report contains several points of immediate importance in
view of on-going WOODROSE activities and current R&D projects.

1. The new series of nine impact standards are designed to give more
precise determinations than the previous standards, covering the
same impact sensation range (0 to 4 is now 1 to 9).

2. The filter cigarettes are available from R&DE and Wood makes the
recommendation that the new standards be used by all panels using
WOODROSE .

3. Very casually in passing, Wood makes the comment that impact "should
be based on the whole cigarette and not merely on the first few puffs."
This is news to me.

 

The new series is based on the relationship between extractable nicotine
delivery and impact. The desired levels of impact sensation are produced
by blends of two flue-cured tobaccos, widely differing in nicotine concent,
in proportions to yield theoretical nicotine deliveries, which give just
noticeable differences (j.n.d.) in impact. Calculations for the tobacco
blend formulations are based on the theory that the difference between two
stimuli is what is important in determining j.n.d. and net absolute values,

The impact standards, identified as IMP/1, IMP/2...IMP/9, were evaluated
by “blind” panel testing. Ten members scored, by the old scale, adjacent
pairs from memory, i.e., no standards were used. The panel average re-
sults ranged from 0.56 for IMP/1 to 3.50 for IMP/9 with all samples falling
in the "carrect" sequence. However, for three of the adjacent pairs,

 

 

Diooe, D. J., RODE Report RD.806-R, "Inpact Standards - A Series of Special
Standards for Assessing Impact on Inhaling," June 22, 1971.

continued - - -

599100120,

 

 

/