G.

H. Long

Page Two ,
October 307 1987 Loe .

STATE AND LOCAL ACTIVITIES

The New York City Council on October 28 held the first.of two hearings

on public smoking legislation. Publicity was minimal. Tobacco allies
representing minorities, labor, businesses, Chambers of: Commerce, and
restaurants will testify at. the second hearing on November 4 and will

request legislative flexibility to serve the wants of smokers and |
non-smokers. . The Council Majority Leader, Peter Vallone, says: the mo
Council will pass legislation before the year end. , me

Washington, D.C. Public Works Committee tabled a stringent ‘smoking
restriction bill on October 28, but they agreed to a substitute _—
proposal covering restaurants and taxicabs. No date has been set for —
full Council action.

Work continues on the Florida tax on services and advertising. A
meeting of the coalition of businesses opposed to the tax was held in
Washington, D.C. on October 28. In Florida, State Senate and House

" leaders have scheduled a total of 8 state-wide public hearings on the

tax, with the first one being held on October 29. Another special
session to address the tax will begin on December 1 or 8. RJRT still’
supports a total repeal of the tax on services and advertising.

A hearing was held in the Maryland Senate Budget and Taxation
committee on October 27 to consider revisions to the Cigarette Sales
Below Cost Act. Cigarette wholesalers and State officials testified
at this hearing and discussed, among other things, the bond require-
ment for wholesalers. The Committee Chairman concluded the hearing by
saying they would take a look at this issue and determine what

legislation might be needed for 1988. RJRT will continue to monitor
this situation.

NORTH CAROLINA/WINSTON-SALEM

On Tuesday, October 27, RJRT hosted a reception and Wachovia hosted a
luncheon for Governor Martin's Business Committee on Education.at the
Winston Plaza. Mayor Corpening made welcoming comments and gave RJRT
a nice plug for being outstanding corporate citizens.

The Winston-Salem Arts Council approves its 1988 fundraising goal on
Wednesday night at $1,375,000. This figure is lower than originally
expected, but the Council thought it better to exceed the goal than to

fall short.

oO
o
0)
o
N
wo
o
oO
_