A literature search on RJR patents regarding paper additives was
completed. Samples of Salem and Salem Lights 100mm as well as
Newport and Newport Lights 100mm cigarettes were obtained as
controis. The following analyses are in progress:

SEM-X-RAY analysis of the ash

SEM examination of the surface morphology of the paper

Reflectance IR analysis of the paper

Ion chromatography determination of anions and cations

LC-UV analysis of paper extracts .

GC-MS analysis of paper extracts and pyrolysis products
GC-FTIR analysis of paper extracts

8. Gas phase analysis

YAW BW hr

Results from the SEM-X-RAY and reflectance FTIR analyses have
indicated differences between the Salem and Salem Preferred
papers. Additional analyses are in progress.

Analysis of Charcoal

B. J. Craven distributed a memorandum, 10/6/94, describing the
charcoal analysis of Japanese market Lark Lights cigarettes. The
charcoal was found to be derived from coal.

Analysis of Flavors

Rich Stepnowski distributed a memorandum describing the analysis
of three flavors for nicotine, memo 10/12/94. The memorandum
confirmed information reported verbally to Product Development in
7/94. Rich did not detect nicotine in the three flavors which
were possible candidates to replace Lorillard flavor #064. The
detection limit of the GC/MS analytical method that was used for
these analyses was better than 1 ppm.

PHOSPHINE PROJECT (B-603):

Rob Stevens, Florian Perini and B. J. Craven completed the
analysis of the Calgon carbon used to remove phosphine from air
during a Danville warehouse fumigation. The ion chromatography
results, completed by Florian, indicated that the “used" carbon
contained large amounts of phosphate ion, indicating that the
phosphine, when absorbed on carbon, was converted to phosphates.
B. J.'s SEM-X-RAY results confirmed the presence of phosphorous
in the “*used* carbon.

Rob is now the leader of the Phosphine Project, B-603 and he is
preparing a report on the activities of the project team. The
report will include 1) background information concerning the
phosphine project, 2) information on the development and testing
of an automated phosphine monitoring system and 3} results from
warenouse tests on phosphine monitoring and phosphine removal .

LITTSP68