Nicotine Analysis in Danville Air Samples and TPP Residues

Emily Cochran distributed a memorandum, 10/17/94, regarding a

Danville air sampling experiment conducted 9/13/94. The memoran-
dum inciuded nicotine resuits that had been reported to Ed Smith
on 9/22/94. The 2/13/94 nicotine in air values ranged from 0.002

mg/cubic meters to 0.42 mg/cubic meters.

Emily Cochran anaiyzed a residue from the TPP v20 tank for “free
base" nicotine using GC-NPD analysis. The nicotine which was
soluble in hexane, designated as “free base” nicotine, was found
to represent 0.01% of the sample weight, as received. The Leaf
Laboratory determined the total nicotine content to be less than
0.03%. The results were reported to Dave Jones.

DIET Tobacco Investigations

The filling value of expanded tobacco from the Lorillard DIET
facility has been steadily decreasing during the past months.
The Analytical Development Section was requested to assist in an
investigation of this filling value decrease.

Comparison of liquid carbon dioxide and FC-11

Rob Stevens has been investigating the expansion properties of

liquid carbon dioxide and FC-11. The literature indicates that
liquid carbon dioxide can expand tobacco to FC~-11 levels. The

operating parameters of our DIET liquid carbon dioxide system,

however, could impact the expansion.

Humectant Penetration

 

B. J. Craven is investigating laboratory tests for studying the
penetration of liquids into tobacco. The development of a method
to measure the extent of penetration may be useful for optimizing
conditions for the application of humectants to tobacco.

B. J. has used an optical stereo microscope to observe glycer-
in/water solutions after their application to the outer surface
of a tobacco leaf. No evidence of penetration through the
surface was observed. Further work is in progress; however, the
use of optical microscopy for this application may be limited.

B. J. used a Fisons system made by Polaron Instruments Inc., to
observe crystals of materials in the cellular structure of
tobacco. The system allows cryogenically cooled samples,
-185°C, to be analyzed in a scanning electron microscope (SEM) .

tITTsves

a