«

The travel, operating and capital budget requests of the Analyti-
cal Development Section were approved for 1995 at the final
budget reviews, October 27,1994. The designated month for
purchase was obtained from Dr. Reid for each capital budget item.

Four digital analytical balances were evaluated in the laboratory
for two to three weeks. An Ohaus AP-250D balance was purchased.

REPORT FROM WEEKLY MEETINGS:

The Analytical Development Section met on October 3, October 10,
October 17, October 24 and October 31. General activities and
current priority projects were discussed. Projects of particular
interest during the month included the nicotine in vegetables
project, the “DIET" tobacco filling value project, the Salem
Preferred paper project and the glue pot project. Group discus-
sions were very informative and potentially useful ideas were
generated.

Rob Stevens and Dick Striegel taught the basic eperations on
“Word Perfect Office“ at our October 24 meeting. Emily Cochran
attended the Organic Section meeting on October 19, 1994 at the
home of Larry Gaines. Larry presented a review of the “thinking
hats“ seminar he had attended.

TCRC:

Dick Striegel continued to work with the registration committee.
The final documentation of TCRC expenditures and income was
completed.

ADOPT A_ SCHOOL:

Jennifer Johnson met several times with school personnel to
coordinate the Lorillard tutorial program. Jennifer also began
recruiting for Lorillard volunteers to participate in the tutori-
al adopt a school program.

TRAINING/ PROFESSIONAL MEETINGS:

Dick Striegel and Rob Stevens attended classes on “Word Perfect
Office". The classes were presented by the training department.

B. J. Craven attended the AREMS (Applalachian Region Electron
Microscope Society) meeting in Winston-Salem on October 13-14,
1994, On the thirteenth, B. J. participated in a one day
workshop sponsored by AREMS on a new Fisons instrument from
Polaron Instruments Inc (Polaron LT7400). The instrument in-
cludes both a sample preparation area where samples are automati-
cally frozen and fractured at -185°C and a cold stage area where @

frozen sampies are analyzed by SEM. Using the Polaron LT7400, &
@

ja

10 S