Pilot Plant DIET Puffer

Jennifer Johnson has worked with Dave Smart, Joe Douglas and
John Chapman to build a Pilot Plant scale DIET puffer. Jennifer
and Dave modified the Pilot Plant FC-11 expansion bench so that
the temperatures required for DIET expansion tests, 365°C to
410°C, could be maintained in the tower inlet, memo 10/5/94.

The team successfully designed a Pilot Plant scale DIET puffer.
Initial tests of the Pilot Plant puffer achieved a 107% expansion
of tobacco. The expansion achieved by the Lorillard DIET TPP
typically ranges from 85% to 87% expansion.

The team recommended that an improved Pilot Plant “impregnation*
vessel be purchased. Such a vessel has been approved for pur-
chase in the 1995 capital budget. Jennifer trained Joe Douglas
in the operation of the expansion bench.

GC-MS Analysis of Residues from the DIET v20 Tank

The yellow residue that is removed from the DIET process V20 tank
during routine maintenance operations has been analyzed for
nicotine by leaf laboratory and Emily Cochran. The residue is
formed as a result of the “precipitation* of compounds from the
“used" liquid carbon dioxide that is stored in the tank.

The compounds which “precipitate" include those that are removed
from tobacco during the impregnation step of the DIET process.
Laboratory studies have shown that various tobacco compounds are
extracted by liquid carbon dioxide at sub-critical conditions,
memo 7/6/93.

Aruna Prakash is currently analyzing the V20 residue using a
GC-MS method. The objective is to identify the compounds in the
residue. The composition of this residue may be of interest
during future DIET optimization studies.

Study of Fabric Volatiles

Ignition propensity results obtained for denim fabrics treated
with potassium sulfate have been unusual compared to correspond-
ing results obtained for denim treated with potassium acetate.
E-Chung Wu and Scott Passer have proposed that the unusual
results might be related to either 1) the volatile compounds that
are emitted when the sulfate treated fabric is charred or 2) the
chemical composition of the sulfate and acetate chars.

Samples of control, potassium sulfate and potassium acetate
denims, as well as various cellulose mixtures and denim blue dye
were submitted. The analyses requested included 1) GC-MS analy-
sis of volatiles produced during charring and 2} FTIR analysis of
the chars.

CTTTSH6s