«

ION EXCHANGE RESINS PROJECT (B-466):

Experimental cigarettes containing “wet* and dry Hypersol-
Macronec(T™) ion exchange resins as filter additives were pre-
pared. The cigarettes will be analyzed for gas phase and car-
bonyl smoke components.

GAS PHASE SMOKE ANALYSIS PROJECT (B-470):

Dick Striegel is currently training Emily Cochran in the gas
phase analysis technique. The gas phase analysis of Salem
Preferred cigarettes, currently on test market, is planned.

NICOTINE ANALYSIS IN VEGETABLES PROJECT (B-499):

Rich Stepnowski distributed status memoranda on the B-499 project
describing the activity during the months of August, memo
10/7/94, and September, memo 10/20/94. During October, Rich
continued his work to develop a method to detect trace nicotine
concentrations in vegetables.

Rich has encountered problems in both the clean-up and analytical
detection phases of the nicotine in vegetables analysis. Areas
currently of concern include 1) determining the stability of
nicotine standard solutions and 2) establishing and improving the
reproducibility of GC-FID and GC-MS results for standard solu-
tions. Problems with the extraction procedure, high nicotine
blanks and low recoveries, were also addressed. Rich is current-
ly utilizing both GC-MS and GC-FID analytical techniques.

PRODUCT APPROVAL PROJECT (B-498):

fhe following memoranda confirming product evaluation results
were distributed by Rob Stevens.

Jaxsan 600 - memo 10/7/94

Q-Mint cleaner - memo 10/10/94
Wipeout cleaner - memo 10/10/94
Mildew Stain Remover - memo 10/10/94

Shelter-Rite vinyl coated fabric memo 10/14/94

Comet industrial cleaner was evaluated and not approved for use
in the plant because of the strong lemon oder. Kim Groome is
currently investigating to determine if the product can be
purchased without the scent.

OIL AND TRACER PROJECT (B-490):

Jennifer Johnson continued to maintain a GC 01il database.
Samples of known oils, which are used at Lorillard, were ana-
lyzed. No instances of oil contamination on cigarettes or
tobacco were reported to Jennifer during October.

6TTTSP6s

8