NUH
rOcaliog

Working Together to Work It Out: er

mene

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Promotes
Peaceful Coexistence

Why Peaceful Coexistence?

In many public places, a wedge is being driven between smokers and nonsmokers. In
most cases, both groups get along well. But their relationship is often misrepresented,
and the conflict blown out of proportion.

In an environment where contention and intolerance prevail, it's unpleasant for both
smokers and nonsmokers. So people stay at home and everyone's business suffers.

The truth is, most people want to work together to achieve a solution. In fact, most adults
believe that smoking restrictions should consider the rights of both sides.

That's why R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (RJR) launched the Peaceful Coexistence
Program in the spring of 1992. It uses a humorous approach to accomplish the serious
task of building bridges instead of walls.

How Do You Achieve Peaceful Coexistence?

It's really not as difficult as it may seem. The key to generating peaceful coexistence is
putting the issue in proper perspective, and encouraging smokers and nonsmokers alike to
exercise tolerance, courtesy, common sense, and accommodation. After nearly three
years, the program has been well-received by hospitality owners across the nation.

Why is the Peaceful Coexistence Program successful? Because...

e A March 1994 Gallup/CNN/USA Today Poll showed that 86 percent
of Americans oppose prohibition on smoking; and

e more than two-thirds want separate sections, not bans.

e It makes good business sense.

Since Peaceful Coexistence benefits all of your patrons, it clearly benefits you and your
business.

What is RJR Doing To Promote Peaceful Coexistence?

Through a variety of materials and informational brochures, RJR is encouraging smokers
and nonsmokers alike to exercise tolerance, courtesy, common sense and
accommodation. The program combines this message with the promotion of good
ventilation and seeks to create the most hospitable environment possible.

 

 

9S6L 692TS