To:

From:

Subject:

PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED ce
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Mr. R. N. Thomson Date: September 4, 1968
J. &. Osmalov

Discussions. with Max Hatisermann. _

_ My discussions with Dr. Hatisermann covered the following
“areas:

f

1. Fluted plastic tip: on the Parliament 100
2. Flush fluted filter development program
3. Microreticulated polymer program

In regard to the fluted Parliament 100 tip, our discussion

was very brief. Dr. Hatisermann stated that the various

‘filter components he tad requested from us and Manufacturing

had been received. He was Specifically interested in learning
more details about the cutter designs used on the dual

combiner and cigaret assembler. I. referred him to Manufacturing
for details,

 

Dr. Hatisermann stated that FTR was extremely interested in
getting ouf an entirely new product and iit was his feeling that
the flush fluted filter could provide the basis for such a
cigaret. I showedi him the extrusion process. and later dis-
cussedi the benefits to be derived when this type filter was
used in combination with a carbon on tow. inner plug, e.g.,
Philip Morris Multifilter type. Dr. Haiisermann indicated

that FTR would probably be interested in purchasing an
extrusion line. I obtained from Gatto the name of their German
subsidiary from which equipment, identical to ours, could be .
purchased, (Later in the day Dr. Seligman suggested! that FTR —
might be able-to: arrange a transfer of one of Manufacturing's :
extrusion lines: to Switzerland and then order another line ae
for themselves, He suggested Dr. Waltz explore this possibility a
through proper company channels.) If they do obtain a line

Dr. Halisermann suggested that I go to Switzerland to assist
them in starting up their process. (I HEARTILY. CONCUR! )

Dr, Halisermann said that FTR would pay all my expenses,

 

I discussed with Dr, Hatisermann the devellopment of our PVC
filter material and the problems we: were having with scaling
the process from lab to pilot stage. We discussed in some
detail possible approaches for cooling the fused material.

He: felt that cooling the material on a belt containing molds
of the same basic configuration as our quartz tubes was a good
approach. Before leaving, Richmond’ he phoned me and suggested
the possibility of extruding microporous fibers. 1 explained
the difficulties which would' be involved in such an approach,
At the end of our conversation he noted that the time spent
in the Cigaret Development Divisiion was of greatest benefit

to him and the most interesting of his current GF