-

"BEC. 404 PRODUCT LABELING
12 months after this bill is enacted, lead containing products

that may pose a risk of human exposure must be labeled.

* BEC. 405 RECYCLING OF LEAD-ACID BATTERIES

12 months after enactment of this Act, batteries cannot be
disposed of ina landfill or incinerated. Batteries can only be
disposed of by delivering them to the seller, an authorized lead
smelter, a recycling facility or an automotive dismantler.
Manufacturers must meet the same requirements.

Retailers must post a sign detailing the proper disposal of used
batteries, and the requirement that a seller accept their return.
All lead-acid batteries must ‘have a proper label. The act
explicitly states that nothing prohibits a state or county etc.
from requiring a deposit upon the sale of a lead-acid battery-

BEC. 406 PROHIBITED Acts.
It is against the law to fail to comply with any provision of

sections 402-405.

SEC. 407 LEAD ABATEMENT AND MEASUREMENT
EPA, HUD, Commerce, HHS and the Department of Labor must have a
comprehensive program to promote safe, effective and affordable
monitoring, detection and abatement of lead paint and other lead

exposure hazards.

Government agencies must establish protocols, criteria, and
minimum performance standards for laboratory analysis of lead in
paint, soil and dust. Commerce must establish certification
programs to assure the quality of laboratory analysis.

HHS acting through the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) must
establish protocols, criteria and minimum performance of
laboratory analysis of lead in blood. 18 months after enactment,
cDc must establish certification programs for laboratories doing
plood-lead analysis. The results of blood-lead analysis shall be

reported directly to cpc.
The Labor Department, EPA, HUD, and NIOSH must develop ninimum
core curricula for technical training courses for lead-based

aint abatement workers, supervisors, designers, inspectors and
building owners. The Labor Department is responsible for quality

assurance in training programs.
The various Government agencies and departments must evaluate

emerging technologies for lead detection, and analysis. Criteria,
standards and testing protocols for detection technologies must

be developed.

1910. Sunderland Place NW.

  
    

“G@S9 PTS8OS