1- The National Restaurant Association has testified against
the OSHA smoking ban. The N. R. A. study shows a projected annual
loss of $18.2 billion in restaurant revenues if smoking is banned
nationwide. This dramatic loss in sales would mean decreased jobs
and government revenue as well. In light of all that, what is
wrong with restaurants simply establishing their own ‘policies,
either allowing smoking or not, but making their own decision on
the issue?

2- Gaming facilities on Indian reservations are a growing
source of competition for America's gaming industry. National and
state legislative and regulatory restrictions do not, however,
apply to Indian reservations. So efforts such as the statewide ban
you supported in California will put the gaming industry at a
distinct competitive disadvantage. How can you in good conscience
support government policies which will ban smoking at commercial
facilities while it is still allowed on Indian lands?

3- There has been a lot of talk that a national smoking ban
would create a “level playing field" in which no restaurant enjoys
an advantage over any other, since none could allow smoking. Yet
that is based on the faulty assumption that things are "level" in
the first place. The truth is that some restaurants rely more
heavily on business from smokers than do others. Why is it
necessary to force diverse businesses to use a single, identical,
one-size-fits-all policy?

4- It seems clear that most Americans want less interference
from government. Yet, the California Restaurant Association is
advocating greater governmental interference, in this case in the
form of a smoking ban. Once you've opened the door to greater
government control, isn't it awfully naive to think you can keep
government out of other areas?

5- The free market has already provided an answer to this
issue: In most communities, some restaurants are smoke-free, some
are not. Customers have a choice.

What is wrong with that? Why shouldn't restaurant owners and
managers be allowed to set their own policies, and allow smoking,
even as they are currently free to ban it? If allowing smoking is
risky, for one reason or another, why shouldn't owners and managers
be allowed to choose to accept that risk?

T
eGz 892T¢