‘d

prison sentences or personal liability be borne by the competent person? Does
EPA believe that such liability will reduce the rate at which accidents aud/or
incidents occur? EPA surely must be aware of the product Nability situation in
this country.’ Aside from the added burden of some sort of personal liability for
fumigators, this liability situation could hardly be worse for registrants and others
who sell and apply pesticides. Let us relate a story recently told to one of us
during a visit ta New York city to speak to Health Department officials and
employees regarding use of phosphine fumigants. One of the officials commented
that they are required to publish public ndtices of when aud where particular
pesticides will be applied by the Health Department. Citizens then write for
techaical information from the pesticide registrants, walk by the site, develo
symptoms of poisoning, bring legal action and routinely collect $5,000 to $1 ,000.
Registrants would choose to be punished for their misdeeds by regulatory bodies
rather than the kangaroo courts of product liability litigation.

Secondly, your proposal that residents near the site of the fumigation be notified
of the impending furnigation suggests that EPA has established that these persons
are at risk. The registrants strongly deny that residents are at risk and have
presented their arguments on this subject previously in their 7 August 1998
submission to EPA. Registrants believe that nearby residents and others in the
area are not at risk during fumigations with phosphine. Further comments on this
subject are made under the section entitled Establishment of a Regulated

"Restricted Area".
Site Specific Health and Sa lan

Every task in this section, with the exception of notifying local residents, is aniply
addressed in the present Applicator’s Manuals. At the risk of extreme
redundancy, the registrants are bewildered as to what has led EPA to conclude
that residents are so imperiled by fumigations. We request to be given access to
the incident report(s) that have formed the basis for this conclusion. If
appropriate, the registrants will bring this subject up at the planned meeting with
EPA. -

EPA would require notification to residents so that they may be evacuated from
the area. Before recommending evacuations, registrants suggest that EPA first
establish that hazardous concentrations exist off site in business and/or residential
areas adjacent to fumigated sites. Registrants will assist EPA should this advice
be followed.

2.

SecBhEcOhS ‘ON XvI

HOS3030 = Wd 6b:20 SNL 96-90-00

@S69 %O6TS