¢ iw aa Ve Aesth
Coumats om LMA: Bua f i he thelts brkckon 17 August 1998

Comments on Risk Mitigation Measures
for Phosphine Fumigants

Peepared by: Inventa Corp., Pestcon Systems, Inc., & Degesch America, Inc.

Introduction .

‘The present Applicator’s Manuals for metal phosphide fumigants were developed
in the late 1980's as part of the Label Improvement Plan of the Reregistration Process.
Substantial technical input for these Manuals was provided by the food industry,
régistrants and EPA. Hours of discussions, careful thought and written communications,
and arguments, led to the final document. The registrants believe that the Manuals have
served well for their intended purpose - the safe and effective usc of phosphine
fumigants for protection of stored commodities and for control of burrowing pests.
Further, we believe that the present Manual and regulations do not need extensive
revision and new risk mitigation measures should not be incorporated unless a need for
them has been established on a scientific basis. Critical comments on the data base used
in development of risk mitigation measures proposed by EPA have been made in the
registrants’ 7 August 1998 submission to EPA entitled “Comments on EPA's Human
Health Risk Assessment", dated 22 June 1998,

We feel that the present Manuals are readable, delineate all present-day
requirements and, along with the certification program for training of persons applying
testricted-use pesticides, have enabled the attainment of an excellent safety record,
especially when compared with other fumigants.

1 Establishment of a Competent Person

Most or all of the suggested requirements listed by EPA in this section are
already covered in the existing Applicator’s Manuals, Present labels require pre-
inspection of the site and development of an overall plan for the fumigation by a
certified applicator. This plan, in order to be a good plan must include
placarding, notification, monitoriog and other tasks necessary for the safe and
effective use of the fumigant. The registrants would have no objection to
rewording sections of the present Manuals which, perhaps, might place more
emphasis on this requirement. Copies of current Manuals can be provided to
EPA, if requested.

There are two chilling suggestions made by EPA in this section on which the
registrants would like to comment. The Girst is making the “competent person"
legally liable for safe and effective use of the fumigant. Is EPA suggesting fines,

ole

10 ‘d ScebbecObS ‘ON XI

6°69 poEts

HOSHO3d «Hd @P:20 3M 86-90-100

 

_ a-nation EEE t Ameen tne + st Ae ene Ee
ase mentor