Gl

More thorough monitoring acound the commodity

This item should be discussed at EPA's proposed meeting with registrants. As
stated previously, the registrants feel that EPA has overestimated the dangers of
phosphine outgassing from treated commodities. The density of phosphine gas, at
concentrations evolved from metal phosphide fumigants, is the same as that of air.
Therefore, there is no danger from stratification in warehouses and other open

Spaces.
P "

Better training for Certiffed Applicators
'

The overall competency of fumigators has increased greatly since certification
requitements were implemented and since Applicator’s Manuals for phosphine
fumigants were prepared under the Label Improvement Program. EPA's
Suggestion that training of certified applicators be improved is an excellent one
which has the potential to reduce incident rates. Having agreed to this approach,
making the appropriate changes in the training/education system is a matter that
requires thought and should be considered as a topic for discussion at EPA's
meeting with the registrants.

There are many fine certification and recertification courses for fumigators given
annually around the country. These courses are conducted by the various states,
by the registrants and fumigation companies and by consulting firms. Some of the
problems associated with providing education to fumigators are listed in the
following.

1, Many of the courses last six hours or more. This is a long time to be
lectured to and "attention span" of the audience is a real problem. This is
particularly true in recertification courses in which much of the material is
by nature repetitive, detailed and often just plain boring.

2. No matter how good the presentations and how devoted the student, there
is a significant gap between what can be taught in the classroom and what
must be acquired through expericnce in the field.

3. There are a number of functions important to fumigation which do not
require that the employee be certified, e.g, aeration of treated structures,
application of fumigant under the supervision of a certified applicator,
deactivation and disposal of spent furnigant, receiving railcars, ete. Present
labeling requires that those persons be trained. EPA and the registrants
should consider formalizing this training. For example, some states have
registered technician programs. Fumigation and food producing companies

provide specialized technical training to employees responsible for i.
performing certain tasks in support of fumigation. $
“de x

a

N

Seeebec0bS ‘ON kVA HOSH0AG «Wd 15:20 SNL 86-90-1090