Monitoring Methods to Minimize Exposure to Bystanders

Present labeling does not require monitoring for protection of bystanders. This is
because bystander exposures are dramatically lower than those suffered by
fumigators and nearby persons. Monitoring techniques presently in use are
Satisfactory for evaluating exposures to bystanders, and others, down to a level of
0.1 ppm PH,.

Establishment of a Reeulated or Restricted Area

.

There are no risks of overexposure to persons:other than fumigators during the
application of phosphine fumigaats and during the period in which the gas is held
within the treated structure. Even poorly sealed structures do not leak phosphine
gas at a rate sufficient to pose a hazard outside the treated area. One would have
to deliberately inhale air from a leak with bis nose touching the building to
reccive a dose sufficient to produce toxic symptoms. In worst cases, a faint,
fleeting odor of phosphine may be observed, but not detected using equipment
sensitive down to 0.1 ppm PH,. The one exception to this is when the treated
structure leaks into an area which is not open and is partially enclosed. Examples
of this are warehouse fumigations resulting in leaks into office areas within the
building and grain elevator fumigations with leaks into enclosed structures such as
tunnels and walkways. These situations are discussed in Applicator's Manuals and
are well-recognized and dealt with by the industry.

The only period of the fumigation operations which has any potential for exposing
residents occurs during aeration of the treated structures. Aeration of large, open
volumes of treated space may release relatively large amounts of phosphine over
relatively brief time periods. This can only occur when large warehouses are
aerated. The release of phosphine is greatly impeded by the commodity mass in
large silos or other bulk storages. USDA has shown that workers may safely
stand on the grain surface in shipholds after only a brief aeration period while
there are still Jarge volumes with high concentrations of phosphine below the
surface. If the bulk storage is aerated with the aid of faos, this results in large
dilutions so that there is no danger of toxicity in the surrounding areas.

Large warehouses and other large storages are only fumigated once or twice a
year, Aeration of warehouses to remove the vast majority of the phosphine
requires relatively few hours. Therefore, any exposure to persons not on the
property will be to very low concentrations for a very brief time period. This
exposure will be minuscule compared to that from biogenic phosphine produced
within the human body. Risks of health effects from phosphine fumigations are
much fower than those from normal] urban activities such as motor vehicle traffic
and industrial emissions and particulates, which are always in the air.

3.

TS69 %O6TS

Seespecops ‘ON XVI HOSI03d §=— Wd 05:20 SNL 86-90-100