W.L. Cleveland, Ph.D. — . > 87-36-3555

was active in the T-cell assay and well separated from the void peak (which might contain
undigested material) was further fractionated by HPLC using a C18 reverse phase column.
An active peak was then fractionated on a high resolution ion exchange column (Dionex,
Omnipae NA-100), yielding six peaks, 5 of which were extremely sharp. Only one peak
was active in the T-cell assay. Laser ionization mass spectroscopy by Dr. Brian Chait,
Rockefeller University, revealed that this peak consisted of an incomplete digestion prod-
uct having a molecular weight of 8612. Only a single molecular weight species was
detected. N-terminal sequencing of the first 10 residues in the Howard Hughes Protein
Core facility revealed a single sequence (xxLxxIxFQT) which was sufficient to identify the
N-terminus of the ovalbumin peptide (ova 127). On the assumption that lysine was essen-
tial (based on data not shown) , ova 185-207 was synthesized and found to be active. We
are now synthesizing additional peptides to determine the boundaries of the epitope.
Second, we have begun a determination of the v-region sequences of the B-lymphoma hy-
bridoma (41-6.A7(1B9)). PCR amplified v-region cDNA has been ligated into a commer-
cial vector . Clones with inserts of the correct size have been sequenced in the Cancer Cen-
ter core facility. The heavy chain v-region sequence of the B-lymphoma fusion partner
(A20.2J.PF) has been completed in this laboratory. To continue this work, we have begun a
collaboration with Dr. Inghirami, a coinvestigator on this application, who has extensive
experience with y-region sequencing. When the v-region sequences of the B-lymphoma
hybrid are in hand, synthetic peptides based on these sequences will be tested with the T-
cell hybridoma. If our hypothesis is correct, one of the v-region peptides should stimulate
the ova-specific T hybrid. :

Aims.
The first aim will be to complete the characterization of the ova epitope recognized
by 32-6.F12, using synthetic peptides. ,

A second aim is to sequence the v-regions of the putative residue internal image B-
lymphoma hybrid 41-6.A6(1.B9) in order to prepare synthetic v-region peptides. The resi-
due intemal image assignment requires the identification of a synthetic v-region peptide
that is stimulatory for 32-6.F12.

A third aim will be to test our hypothesis that T-cell recognized internal images play
a role in physiologic responses to foreign antigens. We will study fusions prepared with
splenocytes from unimmunized mice and mice undergoing primary and secondary respons-
es to ovalbumin. . _

A fourth aim will be to determine the degree of sequence homology between v-re-
gion and ova peptides that is required for functional imagery. This is of great interest since
the frequency of residue intemal images in the repertoire will depend on the degree of
homology required. :

Budget: I estimate that this project can be completed in 3 years with annual direct costs of
approximately $85,000, .

 

40021754