rates held constant, the birth order distribution in 1968 on
the whole favored a lower overall infant mortality rate than
in 1960." However, he thought that this effect would be
cancelled out by the changing distribution of miatemal age
toward lower maternal ages between 19€0 and 1968.

Data supporting the impact of MIC services on infant
mortality are equivocal.” Wholey and Silver estimated in
1966 that MIC projects could reduce infant mortality in
high risk patients toa level closer tu the national average, or
from about 41 per 1,000 live births to about 24 to 29.°
This estimate is apparently supported by some data such as
that from Chicago's MIC project, in which neonatal
mortality (which usually constilutes approximately 90 per
cent of infant mortality) for project patients 15 years old
or younger was 19 per 1,000 live births, while for
nonproject patients it was 37.5 The socioeconomic status
of the two groups was not matched, however, leaving some
reservation as to whether the difference in mortality rates is
attributable to the prenatal and infant care services
provided by the MIC projects.

In discussing only pregnant women and their babies,
we ate not giving credit for high risk births averted by the
family planning services offered by MIC projects. These
services, made available particularly to medically indigent
women, have been an importan? contribution of the MIC
projects. Without any measure, however, of exactly how
many high risk births have been prevented through these
services. We cannot estimate the potential effect they may
have exerted on the national infant mortality rate. We con
show that the maximum contribution of MIC prenatal and
infant care services to the reduction in national infant
mortzlity rate is quite modest.

Method

Age-birth order-specific infant mortality rates (rates for
each age-birth order cell) for births occurring in the United
States during 1960'* sre applied to age-birth order
distributions of births for each of the succeeding years.
vielding estimated numbers of deaths in each cell for those
succeeding years under an assumption of constant age-birth
order mortality rates within each cell, The sum of the
estimated deaths for each year is voed to estimate an infani
mortality rate for that year. and the estimated rate is then
plotted on a graph with the actual rate for the same year. A
least squares regression line is computed for each of the two
sets of rales for all of the vears for which data are availavle.
These are plotted and the slopes ate examined.

This calculation assumes thal other chiracteristics of
the mother count for little, compared to age and parity, in
determining the probabilities of infant death. Thr. assump-
tion does some violence to current knowledge, but is
necessary to be able to estimate the effecls on infant
mertelity of changing age-parity distributions from vital
slatistics,

* Dats from United States 1960 Live Birth Cohort
Study. The study 1s described in Reference 6.

360 AJPH APRIL 1975 Vol 65 No 4

To study the effect of prenatal and infant care
obtained in MIC projects on the infant mortality rate, we
compare the actus! rates with estimates of the rates under
the assumption of no MIC projects. ‘fo do this we add to
the numters of infant deaths for each year more deaths
wich represent those assumed to be prevented by MIC
projects. The highest risk identifiable groups in the United
States have Infant roortality rates which are around 4U per
1,006 sive births, while the overall U.S. rate is ebout half
that. We give the benefit of the doubt to the MIC projects,
and assuitie that they have reduced the rate in the patients
they have served by about 20 per 1,000 during the
following year.

Results

Figure 1 shows the declining trend in the infant
mortality rate for 1960-1972, the years fot which we have
age-birth order distributions for births available to us. The
solid line is the linear fit of the tziangle points beginning
with 1965. The circle points represent the estimated infant
mortality rate assuming constant age-birth order-specific
mortality rates since 1960 and the broken line is the linear
fit of those points beginning with 1965, The estimated rates
have been adjusted upwerd by the constant 1.3 so that the
estimate for 1960 coincides with the actual rate (26.0). The
estimate was 24.7 for 1960, the difference being due to
incomplete matching of birth and death records in the
Cohort Study from which the age-birth order-specific
mortality rates came. The slope of the broken line
represents the part of the decline which was attributable to
the changing age-birth order distribution from high risk to
low risk categorics. The remainder of the decline~the
difference betweeri the broken line and the solid line—is
attributable to reduction of age-birth order-specific mortal:
ity rates. Numerically, the slope of the broken line is —0.24
and the slope of the solid line is —-0.89. About 27 per cent

O RStMATLD wORTRLITY fete
@ AL TUR, Ortaet WORT RATT

hat atom bee Be
teeter Eprometen bee de

ae t nn
a
@ 8 0 o,
wrens 24 ‘ Beal
wera, As 7s
Ratt me \ maf
gr sons
se Sty \
. .
To \

| Yee ne tah ee A I
FIGURE 1 Infant mortaliy rates in the United States,
1860-1972.