. Infant Mortality Rates: Relationships with Mother's

Reproductive History, United States. U.S. Department
of Health, Education, and Welfare, Vital and Vealth
Statistics Series 22, No. 15, 1973.

. Pearse, W. H. The Maternity and Infant Care Progran.

Obstet. Gynecel, 35:1145—319, 1970.

. Wholey, J. §., and Silver, G. A. Maternal and Child

Health Care Programs. U.S. Department of Health,
Education. and Welfare, 1966.

. Zachler, J.. Andelman, S. L.. and Bauer, F. The Young

Adolescent as an Obstetric Risk. Am. @. Obstet.
Gynecol. 103:305, 1969.

a

. Chase, H. A Stady of Infent Mortality from Linked

Records: Method of Study and Registration Aspects.
National Center for Health Statistics, Series 20, No. 7,
1970,

. Vital Statistices of the United States—Natality Volumes

for 1960-1968. U.S. Department of Hesith, Education,
and Welfare. Annual Summaries, Vital Statistics of the
United States, 1972.

. Gendell, M., and Hellegers, A. E. The Influence of the

Changes in Maternal Age, Birth Order, and Color on the
Changing Perinatal Mortality, Baltimcre, 1961-66.
Health Serv. Rep. 88:733--742, 1973.

 

CALL FOR NOMINATIONS FOR SECTION ELECTIONS

Suggestions are being sought by each of the Section Nominating Committees of the American
Public Health Association in order to develop a slate of candidates for Section elections to be held
Jater this vear. The nominations should be submitted as s00n as possible, since the Section
Nominating Committees must submit their slate of nominees to APHA headquarters by April 15,

1975.

Each Section has at least one vacancy cccurring annually for a Section officer (i.c.. chairman,
vice-chairman, secretary, or secretary elect), two seats on the Section Council, and at feast one svat on

the Governing Council.

Each Section must provide. in writing. the following information on each nominee for each
office: full name. acedemic degree, curreni position, address. and current and past APHA activities.
This information should be sent to the respective Nominating Committee Chairpersons, listed below,
in care of APHA, 1015 Eighteenth Street, NW, Washington, DU 20036.

Chaitpersons of Section Nominating Committees are: Community Health Planning, Patricia
Evans, MPH: Dental Health, Martha Fales. PhD: Environment, William V. Hickey; Epidemiology, E.
Russell Alexander. MD; Food and Nutrition, Joan Carter, MPH; Health Administration, Franklin D.
Yoder. MD, MPH: Injury Control and Emergency Health Services, to be appointed: Laboratory.
Elizabeth D. Robinton, PLD, Maternal and Child Health, Fsed Seligman, MD, MPH; Medical Care,
Jerry A. Solon. PhD: Mental Health, Anna Barker; New Professionals, Dorothy Bellas; Occupational
Health and Safety, Paul H. Witt, MA; Podiatric Health, Theodore Clarke, DPM: Public Health
Education, Caroine S. MacColl, MSPH; Public Health Nursing, Edith Wright, RN, MPH: Radiologica)
Health, Robert C. Will, MS: School Health. Emily Hammond, MEd; Social Work, Robert W.
Lindstrom, MSW: Statistics, Ear! S. Pollack. SeD; Vetecinary Public Health, to be appointed.

Section election deadlines are as follows:

April 15~Section Nominations Committees must submit nominations slates in writing
August 1—Nomnnations by petition due to Section Nominating Chail persons
August 8—Nominations by petition due at APHA headquarters
August 15—Ballot is mailed to each Section member
September 15-: Ballot is due at APHA headquarters
Section nominations slates will be published in the July issue of the American Journal of Public
Heatth. Members will have the opportunity to add names to slates by the petitioning process.

362 AJPH APRIL 1975. Vol 65. Nu 4