“

‘14 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,

Tuesday, Dec. 13, 1977

—-

Asbestos workers would get $20
million, including $5.7 million in an un-
usual payment by the federal govern-
ment, in a secret settlement of consoli-
dated suits by the Tyler, Texas, work:
ers. They had charged negligence that
permitted exposure to cancer-causing
asbestos.

’ (Story on Page 14)
* 2 *

<= EEEEEE
‘U.S. Reportedly Agrees in Asbestos Suit.

To Pay Portion of $20 Million Settlement

 

 

A WALL STREET JOURNAL News Roundup

In an unusual move, the federa! govern-
ment has agreed to chip in $5.7 million as
part of a §20 million secret settlement of
consolidated suits by 445 Tyler, Texas, as-
bestos workers.

Despite a gag order by U.S. district court
an all parties involved, Informed sources
say that the workers, who sued the federal
poverni.:cut and several private companies
in 1974, were secretly offered a cash settle-
ment in September. The sults allege public
and private negligence that allowed workers
to be exposed innocently to cancer-causing
asbestos, specifically a type called amosite.
The settlement, whicn allows conclusion of
the suits without specific blame being
placed with anyone, was sealed until at least
Thursdav.

The Tyler workers sued the companies
that owned the plant since its opening in
1% until it closed in 1972 as well as asbes-
tos suppliers. The defendants include Pitts-
burgh Corning Corp., a company jointly
owned by PPG Industries Inc. and Corning
Glass Works that operated the Tyler plant
from 1962 until 1972. These three companies
will pay workers about $8.1 million, sources
said

Other defendants include Union Asbestos

re,

 

anywhere else.”’

eee
& Rubber Co., of Chicago, which will pay $1
million. The British holding company of Cape
Industries Ltd. and its subsidiaries were
also sued and will pay %.2 million. Cape
owns asbestos mining and marketing con-
cerns in Africa, London, and the U.8., sources

said. :

The federal government's share of the
settlement totals $5.7 million. The payout
was arrived at as the result of charges of
withholding bealth information on workplace
conditions.

, federal authorities were
charged with entering into a secret agree-
ment with the plant's management to with-
hold from workers findings of high asbestos
levels in the air. Sources said that the
agreement was entered into by the Public
Health Service, which thought it wouldn’t
otherwise be allowed right of entry to in-
spect the workplace in 1964 as part of a sur-
vey of 38 plants. However, another charge
against the government was that eg the
Flant was operating under federal contract
it fell within the realm of the Walsh-Healy
Act, which requires the government to en-
sure that workers for @ federal contractor
have a safe workplace. The plant made as-
bestos insulation to supply Navy veseels.

Sources sald that some asbestos used at
the plant came from federal stockpiles in
unmarked sacks. Sources said that federal
officials made depositions that admit to the
Government Services Administration’s sale
of unmarked asbestos up to two years ago,
and said GSA still sells asbestos, although it
is properly labeled.

The suits were brought after Tyler work-
ers became concerned about unhealthy work
conditions. Sources said that 25 deaths have
been directly attributed to the workplace
conditions, and that about 70 to 80 asbesto-
sis, or lung disease, cases have been docu-
mented over the last few years. Also, un-

‘| usually high numbers of a rare lung cancer

called mesothelioma has continued to show
up among former plant workers,

PPG Industries declined comment on the
proposed settlement end other defendants
weren't available for comment.

Although he declined comment on
whether a settlement had been reached, one
attorney for numerous plaintiffs said that
the case's outcome ‘won't be of preceden-
ttal value elsewhere... it doesn’t mean the
government will necessarily be held liable

85650285