OSHA

The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), of the
United States Department of Labor, has issued a Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking on indoor air qualitiy (IAQ) and tobacco smoke. It would
impose broad requirements on employers regarding air quality and
the operation and maintenance of heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning (HVAC) systems. It would effectively prohibit smoking
in indoor public places. ‘

Smoking would be banned in restaurants, bars, private clubs, retail
establishments,, office buildings, government buildings, bingo
parlors, bowling alleys, casinos, hotels and motels, sports arenas,
and every other indoor space except residences. It is the most
far-reaching proposed smoking restriction in history, and would
override every less restrictive state and local restriction
currently on the books.

It would apply to EVERY workplace, regardless of size, with the
exception of sole proprietorships (one self-employed person,
with no employees) .

The only “concession" to the reality that 45 million adult
Americans smoke is a provision for smoking areas which is so
burdensome they are unlikely to be provided by more than a handful
of employers, if any. Smoking could legally take place only in
‘separate, designated pon-work areas, which are maintained
(ventilated) at a negative pressure compared to surrounding areas
and separately exhausted to the outside. Further, no employees

could enter the area for work purposes.

In other words, they could go into the designated area for a
“break," and smoke a cigarette, but not to work. Thus, a
restaurant or bar could not have a smoking room in which food or
drinks were served, or from which dirty dishes or glasses were
removed by workers. Even routine cleaning of the designated
area/room would have to be done during hours in which no smoking
were taking place.

In other words, if this rule is allowed to take effect, there will
no longer be a single bar or restaurant anywhere in America (with
the possible exceptions of Indian reservations, the United Nations,
and foreign embassies and consulates) in which you can be served
food or drink while smoking a cigarette (or pipe, cigar, whatever).

ezeg Loses