+----Original Message-----

From: Conrad, Nancy W.

Sent: Friday, January 26, 2001 11:44 PM
Ta: Rittweger, Karen L.; Schwartz, Linda H.
Ce: Horn, Bonnie T.; Rafferty, Shelby J.
Subject: RE: Cowboy's Christmas

Agree w/ the simplicity of the piece and the opportunity to dimensionalize Cowboy's Christmas for our YAS
direct audience. | also think a "Card" format in the spirit of Cowboy's Christmas might be a nice gption to! think
about when writing the brief since it will add the personal touch while helping them to understand this summer
“holiday” - cards are nice personal touch on any holiday, especially one that so relates to Marlboro. You know,
like the YAS stated last night in qualitative, "I only open personal mail” - beautiful card, regular card envelope,
special return address, looks likes it's from a friend (it is}, explanation of the CXmas on the back of the card only -
not in the middle fold at all. Like Hallmark, most people look at the back of a great card. It might even
become a tradition for our YAS every year {like the Birthday Card), regardless of the retail communication
during that time period. Moreover, many Co's send holiday caras at year end, this will be different, Just some
thoughts...

The communication of the specific offer at retail could be problematic as Shelby stated below - I'd like to avoid
adult consumer disappointment if we told them about the offer and they couldn't find it in their store - whether

Though [agree that it might not be a compelling trial offer for competitive YAS, if they are alternate purchasers,
it's @ great value. In fact, ina recent focus group (can't remember which one), an adult consumer stated that
he buys the B3G2F deal and splits it among other adult smoker friends,

Though | understand that we are restricted with how we request GIID {and budget} - this might have been an
appropriate time to ask for their GID {separate piece w/in envelope) and send them a nice non-branded

item/ gift for CXmas. (Silver scrolled lighter}. Though again, it might be too promotional - more marketing "to"
them than just a nice personal message.

Nancy 2079132129

aon ‘Original Message-----