FELDMAN, PLEKCS, McAuLISTSR

rs

INTEROFFICE MEMO

DATE: December 28, 1994

TO: Don Ford, Ph.D.

FROM: Henry T. Lynch, M.D.

SUBJECT: Mark R. Green, M.D. #4148 "Lung Cancer: Tissue

Acquisition and Molecular Analysis"
SECONDARY REVIEWER:

Dr. Green hypothesizes that heritable genetic characteristics are
important in conferring variable susceptibility to the initiation
and promotion of lung cancer. Should a molecular genetic
foundation for this hypothesis be found, it could then provide
elucidation with respect to the evolution of lung cancer. This
would then have implications for early detection, therapy, and
possibly even prevention through identifying high-risk individuals.
Such a molecular genetic loci could also enable the determination
of genetic targets for environmental carcinogens within the lung.
This could involve chemoprevention.

Dr. Green will attempt to identify genetic components which may
play an etiologic role in the transition of normal lung tissue to
lung cancer. This will involve differential mRNA Display PCR (mRNA
"fingerprinting") (DDP) and Representational Difference analysis
(RDA) which are recently developed molecular techniques which have
promise in terms of permitting rapid identification of molecular
variances at the genomic and transitional level between neoplastic
and normal tissue counterparts. These methodologies will be
employed in Dr. Green's grant.

It is anticipated that between 25 to 40 patients per year will be
recruited, at which time blood draws and tissue procurement will be
attained. These patients will be interviewed and seen in the
Multi-Disciplinary Second Opinion Lung Cancer Clinic. This
interview will include their smoking history.

The aims will include the mentioned molecular genetic methodologies
which, if successful, may be able to address the P.I.'s hypothesis.
With some degree of optimism, this could then translate into the
clinic.

This is a well thought-out study which is based on methodologies at
the cutting edge of molecular biology. The patient and specimen
collection should be readily facilitated in that Dr. Green is the
Director of the Program for Lung Cancer Research and Head of the
Lung Cancer Clinical Research Program at the UCSD Cancer Center.
This is a highly pertinent study.

Merit A.

CTR-CONFIDENTIAL SUBJECT TO P.O. IN US v. PM ETAL. 99CV2496 (SCIENTIFIC PEER-REVIEW MATERIAL)