WHY YOUNG PEOPLE
BEGIN SMOKING

nti-smoking advocates and government

researchers have long acknowledged

that family and peers are the primary
influences on smoking by young people. The
Director of the National Institute of Child Health
and Human Development before Congress put
it simply: “The most forceful determinants of
smoking [by young people] are parents, peers
and older siblings.”

These influences, unlike the asserted influence
of cigarette advertising, have been shown to be
both powerful and direct.

Anational study published by the federal government in
1992 reports, “The smoking practices of older brothers or
sisters living at home were more closely associated with
teenager smoking than was parental smoking. Thirty
percent of adolescents reported currently smoking in
homes where only older siblings smoked, compared with
15 percent of teenagers from homes where only their
parents smoked.”

“As expected, the smoking patterns for both teenage boys
and girls were highly correlated with the smoking
practices of their closest friends. Teenagers with no best
friends of the same sex who smoked, seldom smoked
(about 3 percent). However, almost half of adolescents
with at least two best friends who smoked were smokers
themselves,” the report said.

A four-country survey conducted by the World
Health Organization (WHO) further provides
support for the influences of peers and family as
the most forceful determinants of youth smoking.
The WHO study, published in 1986, reported:

 

 

“Studies of why people start
smoking identify the influences of
parents, siblings, and friends as the
most important causal factors.”

THE PRESIDENTS COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISORS

 

 

“When young people start smoking, the most important
predictor is the smoking behavior and smoking-related
activities of ‘significant others’.”

“The strongest statistical relationships are found with the
smoking habits of the best friend.”

The survey also found that smoking among school
children is “strongly related to the number of smokers in
the family.”

Peers and family members have been repeatedly
demonstrated to play a key role in smoking by
young people. Cigarette advertising, on the
other hand, has not.

Advertising was listed by one percent of respon-
dents in 1991 — and not listed at all in 1993 — in
a Gallup survey as the principle influence on the
decision to smoke. Peer pressure and family
influence were cited by almost three-quarters of
respondents as the major factors.

(continued on back)

TI1354-0621