PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
Inter-Office Correspondence
Richmond, Va.
May 3, 1994

To: All 1.S. Employees
From: Jerry Ward
Subject: Records Retention

 

 

Attached is a copy of a Records Disposal Notice for I.S.. Please review and purge your records
in accordance with the retention periods and dates reflected on this notice. This needs to be
done in order to ensure compliance to PMUSA Records Retention Policies, Procedures,
Schedules, and legal requirements. All of your records should be reviewed and purged except
for those records that are under "disposal suspension" because of pending litigation.
Documentation regarding suspended records is also attached.

The retention policy and schedule are applicable to both electronic and paper records.
Electronic mail should be treated as a communication similar to a telephone conversation.
Electronic mail can be substantive or transitory; transitory electronic mail can be disposed of by
the originator and recipients based on their administrative need for the message. Ata
minimum, transitory messages should be reviewed and purged quarterly. If an electronic mail
message is substantive and requires retention, the retention (magnetic media and/or paper)
must comply with the applicable retention schedule.

The PMUSA/I.S. Records Retention Policy, Procedures, and Category Descriptions can be
viewed (and printed) on-line via the "documentation" option within the DEVCENTER. Please
call Brenda Perkins (ext. 3713) or me (ext. 5139) if you have any questions or need assistance
with the on-line facility.

After completing your review, please sign your name in the space provided below and
return to Brenda Perkins (JRC-43-1) by 05/31/94, indicating you are in compliance with
the PMUSA Records Retention Policy.

| certify that | have destroyed all records in accordance with the attached |.S. Records
Disposal Notice. Further, | certify that the records | have destroyed were reviewed
against the attached Disposal Suspension Notice and that none of the records
destroyed are subject to disposal suspension.

Name (Print): Ket weol weHEaYr

(Employee)

Signature:
(Employee)

 

FOGETSTSOG