- 3 -
PLANS FOR 1989

ul
S
co
Ww
Ss
bh
u
W
wo

DENTIFICATION OF CHEMIC co ENTS
Serve as resident expert in the area of Fourier transform infrared
spectrometry as applied to the analysis of complex mistures and in the area o
NMR spectrometry. Particular attention if directed toward the hyphenated
technique of gas chromatography/matrix isolation/Fourier transform/IR
spectrometry. Within this same general category , serve as consultant in the
area of solid state IR with particualr attention directed toward IR
microscopy.

2) FREON REPLACEMENT

Continue to explore the applications of micro Ge technologies to the analysis
of volatile materials in process streams.

3) FLAVO

Further development of the new technique SFC and SFE will be explored.
Attention will be directed toward the production of candidate flavor material
from tobacco and other natural products(SPA). SFC will be used to characteriz
the thermally labile and high molecular weight materials whose prosence has
been indicated in tobacco extracts by previous experiments, Attempts will be
made to wed SFE with GC in an integral piece of instrumentation. Conceivably
a unit described by SFE/GC/IR/MS could be developed.

4) PACKAGING TECHNOLOGY

Continue to work as coinvestigator into he design and construction of new
instrumentation directed at the determination of the permeation rates of
complex mixtures through barrier materials (films). Conduct experiments
describing the optimun operating parameters. Pursue a patent application in
this area of instrumentation design.

5)SP
Perform specialized analyses as required

6 )IMPROVE CHEMIC N s

Continue to serve as coinvestigator into the installation and setup of the ne\
hyphenated technique(GC/IR/MS) for improved responce times for analytical
requests. Compare the advantages and disadvantages of the GC/VPIR with that
of GC/MIIR in the analysis of samples relevent to company needs. Pursue the
publishing of an article describing the results of the investigation.

7 NPT
Continue to serve as contac point and cooridinator of all analytical requests
of the division originated from NPT.

8 )IMPROVE MEASURE T s

Pursue new areas of analytical development targeted directly at the needs of
the company. Areas to include but not be restricted to SFE, SFC,
MTFTIR,MDGC ,NMR,etc.

9 )PROFESSIOINA EVELO T

Actively continue professional development via published articles in the peer
reviewed literature and presentations at professional meetings related to the
analysis of complex materials as required fro company projects,