Friday, May 24, 1991

AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL

* The federal government’s increasing use of risk assessment in making decisions on
how to control pollution was the focus of Congressman Scheuer’s Subcommittee on the
Environment hearings May 21 on "Risk Assessment: Strengths and Limitations of
Utilization for Policy Decision." Lester B. Lave, an economics professor from Carnegie-
Mellon University, said that risk assessment methods adopted by the EPA often had
little scientific support. Witnesses called for the creation of a new scientific agency to
review risk analysis methods.

IN THE STATES

* The Minnesota legislature passed two cigarette bills before closing its 1991
session. The budget bill includes a 5-cent cigarette tax effective July 1; another bill
would create a subsidized health insurance program with a 4-cent cigarette increase on
June 1 and a 3-cent increase in 1993. Both measures await action by Governor Carlson.

* In Vermont, lawmakers have agreed to raise the cigarette tax by 3 cents in penny
increments through 1992. The budget package, sent to Governor Snelling, also raises the
sales tax to 5 percent and repeals exemption for other tobacco products.

* The Missouri legislature passed a $375 million education bill with a 5-cent raise
in the cigarette tax and a new 10 percent tax levy on other tobacco products. The
measure, which also raises the sales tax and adjusts personal income taxes, must go
before the voters on a November 5 ballot. Lawmakers also sent to Governor Ashcroft a
privacy bill that would ban discrimination based on off-the-job use of lawful products.

* The Massachusetts House adopted a budget bill after rejecting a proposed 5-cent
cigarette tax increase. As sent to the Senate, the bill does not address tobacco taxes.

* In Alaska, the legislature adjourned without acting on a proposed 12-cent increase
on cigarette taxes and a tax increase on smokeless tobacco products. Also dying with
adjournment were a vending ban and sampling restriction bills. Lawmakers did send to
Governor Hickel a bill to put a smoking "warning" on signs currently required where

alcoholic beverages are sold, warning about consumption during pregnancy.
continued...

TIMN 0039937