See

WASHINGTON POST
Washington, D.C.
June 25, 1964

6-Year Delay
On Cigarette
Label Possible

Court contests eould delay Gray, president of R. J..
enforcement of the Federal Reynolds Tobacco Company,
Trade Commission’s n€W made it plain that the FTC is
regulation branding cigarettes in for a fight.
as hazardous for as long as «Qyp attorneys,” he said,
six: years. : “have advised us that the

The estimate was given Commission does not have au-
yesterday by Oren Harris (D- thority to issue this trade regu-
Ark.), chairman of the House jation rule. We. shall oppose
Commerce. Committee, which i¢ in the courts if necessary.

- ig conducting hearings on «we oppose it because we

anti-smoking legislation. —_—_pelieve this matter should be
Harris and other committee resolved. by Congress and not
members appeared obviously by a Federal agency,” he de-
miffed at the timing of the ojareq. ,
FTC announcement — while Gray told the committee he
they were holding . hearings didn’t know “whether or not”
on what, if any, legislative the Anti-Trust Division of the
action’ should be taken on jystice Department. had given
heal’: hazards of clgarettllearance to the industry’s pro-
smoking. lposed Cigarette Advertising

FTC Chairman Paul Rand Code, which would set and en-

. : force cigarette advertising
Dixon announced the regula- standards.

tion before Congressional Harris said his committee

committee Wednesday. Begin-had been informed such clear- —

ning Jan. 1, he said, all cigar-ance was being withheld pend-
ette packs must be labeled as ing developments of the cur-
a health hazard that may "ent hearings. .
cause death. ‘
The regulation also provides
that beginning July 1, 1965,
all cigarette advertising must
carry similar warnings.
The pronouncement was im-
mediately. challenged: by Con-
gressmen from tobacco-grow-
ing areas and by tobacco grow-
ers associations.
Yesterday, Bowman Gray,
of Winston-Salem, N.C., ap-
peared before the Committee
as spokesman for all the maj-
or cigarette makers in the
United States..He charged that
the. FTC. acted “unlawfully”
when it issued the regulation.

Page 11

6928Zz0SZ0z

REE ete at rte: