To:

From:

Subject:

Q.A. Laboratory Personnel

PHILIP MORRIS U. S. A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPO

RECHMOND, VIRGINIA ,

‘

Dawud Al-Hakim

AUTO ANALYZER II PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE PROCEDURE

OBJECTIVE:

Date:

NDENCE

June 11, 1985

To instruct all Quality Assurance Supervisors, Coordinators and Process
Technicans in the Preventive Maintenance Procedure used to ensure that that

the Ammonia (NH

Potassium Sorbate (KS), and Nitrate-Nitrogen (NO,-N) Channels

),
of the Auto Analyzers are in good operating condition on a consistent basis.

PROCEDURE FOR NH, CHANNEL:

1.

10.

Take all reagent lines out of their containers and immerse in a 10% solution
of Hydrocloric Acid (HC1). Allow solution to flush through Channel for

five (5) minutes.

Shut the Channel down by cutting off-the switch on top of proportioning

pump, cut colorimeter lamp off.

Remove pressure plate from the top of the proportioning pump: This is
metal plate that presses down on the pump tubing.

Place a piece of tape across the plastic end

blocks holding the tubing in

place. Remove and set end blocks with pump tubing aside.

Remove side rails that lay across roller chai

and check for wear. If rails need to be replaced, do so, with new ones. If

not, lubricate with smal] amount of Semi-flui
proportioning pump.

n assay. Clean with kim wipes

d lubricant and place back on

Place plastic end blocks and pump tubing back on proportioning pump and

remove tape.

Replace old pump tubing, one at a time, with
each tube.

new by matching the color of

Take old dialysis membrane off the dialyzer block by unscrewing bolts with

torque wrench. Replace with new membrane by carefully setting it on top of

the bottom portion of dialyzer block. Punch

holes in membrane where bolts

are to enter bottom of dialyzer block and carefully place top portion of
block on. Screw bolts in until the torque wrench clicks.

Immerse all reagent lines in freshly made dil

Place pressure plate on proportioning pump.
Allow channel to flush for five (5) minutes.

uent water.

Turn pump and colorimeter on.

2VEEPOSSO%