THE 1989 DEVEL CONFERENCE ON LIPIDS”

Donner Laboratory -.

Uneversiy of Catiorn:a

Berkaley, Catlorma 94720
(Phong: 415-485-4605)

Fochard 1 Havet, Local

Cardiovasevtar Research Insutte. 1315M -

Unuverstty of CaSforua
San Franesco; Caliorua 94143-0130
(Phone: 415.476—-2226}

Uncverstty of Cakforma
San Franexsco. Caiforma 94140
(Prone: 415. 826-7500)
John D. Brunzed, 1990
Peter A. Edwards, 199%

27 May 1989
Background Information on the. Devel Conference On Lipids -

The Deuel Conference on Lipids was organized by a ‘small group
of eminent West Coast scientists interested in lipid. research, to
provide for the western. states a conference on lipids similar to
the Gordon Conferences. Shortly after it’ was organized, one of the
founders, Harry Deuel, died. and the conference was named in his
memory. The conference has been held annually since about 1955 in
various West Coast locations.

Generally the.-conference. is devoted to one or two. subjects and
both basic and- clinical materials are presented. The two,.and
one-half day conference consists of five sessions beginning Wednes-
day or Thursday morning and: running until Friday or Saturday;.. and
is held in late. February or .early. March. . Each session is
introduced by a speaker chosen for his or her high stature. in the
field. These speakers review their own and related work. Each re-

“view is followed by a few small presentations and -general
discussion of a disease process. Informality and wide interchange

of information and views are encouraged by. limiting-the size of. the.
groups, by the round table format, and by not. recording or publish-_
ing the discussions.

Until “1968, - the conferences were organized’ by Dr. L.W.
Kinsell, and since that. time they have continued under a broadly. -
based rotating leadership.. The original policies. of the conference »
have been preserved to keep within the traditional budget, to main-
tain the informal atmosphere, and.to provide the depth and breadth —
of expertise necessary for a high quality conference.

The attendance has: been kept at less than 100 persons to in-.
sure informality. A few established investigators in the field of
lipids, mostly from west of the Continental Divide,. are regularly.
invited to attend. Lipid scientists in the west are informed. of
the coming program and are invited. to apply for a place around. the
table.. The Program Chairman. selects: participants on the basis of .
relationship of the research interests of ‘applicants to. the pro-
gram. These participants are expected to provide their own travel |
and living expenses. All. attendees are expected to be present. for
the entire conference. .

The funds to. defray ,the expense of speakers and conference
costs are sought from industrial firms which have a general ‘inter-
est. in the area of lipids. Donors are extended the privilege of
sending a participant(s) to the conference. However, because of .
the limited size and the increasing interest in the conference, it.
has become necessary recently to adopt the policy of. restricting
the participants of the supporting firms to two, with a minimum
donation of $1500 per attendee.

E.L. Bierman, Chairman
Funding Committee
1989 Deuel Conference on Lipids.