R Ke WIOKTT

Tobacco Company

 

Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102
919-741-5000

February 12, 1997

Prof. Dr. Ulrich Mohr
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur Forderung der
Angewandten Forschung e.V.
Koistanty-Gutschow-Strasse 8

30625 Hannover 61
GERMANY

Dear Dr. Mohr:

I enjoyed your recent visit to Winston-Salem and the discussions of your
results to date as well as discussions of mutually interesting research. I would
like to maintain some type of collaborative research effort even at this time
when our R&D department has severely limited financial resources. ] have
handed your proposal to Dr. Burger for examination and I understand he will
attempt to secure funding from sources outside of R & D. I also have included a
booklet concerning a request for applications of funding from CIAR (Center
for Indoor Air Research) which includes several R J Reynolds representatives
on the Board of Directors and on the list of Peer Reviewers. CIAR would look
with interest at an application concerning ETS exposure systems for in vitro
toxicology.

After reviewing your agreement with RJR, I noticed the termination
date was March 31, 1997. | have contacted our legal department to extend this
date to December 31, 1997 to allow adequate time and prevent a rush to utilize
the funds you have remaining. I have been very pleased with the results from
the cytotoxicity and micronuclei assays completed with the funds used to date
and look forward to initial results investigating the in vitro smoke exposure
system with the remaining funds. I am hopeful that any results obtained with
HiQ using your in vitro smoke exposure system would benefit our continued
collaboration on refining this promising technology for in vitro smoke
exposure. Please let me know if I can provide any scientific expertise on the
exposure system or the cell cultures.

Gow,
With Kind Regards, . oS suk y (th,
David W. Bombick, Ph.D. B Pr / f Q k u

Senior Staff R&D Toxicologist euete qt

YP

Lawes CAR,

He sg
“Dark

9ST6 SS9TS

“We work for smokers.”