{Reprinted from CLINICAL CHEMISTRY, $1, 1715 (1985).]

Copyright 1985 by the American Association of Clinical Chemistry and reprinted by permission of the copyright owner.

Anion-Exchange Chromatography to Determine the Concentration of
Chloride in Sweat for Diagnosis of Cystic Fibrosis
Marvin E. Miller, Janice M. Cosgriff, and Robert H. Schwartz

For the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, we use the “Macroduct
Sweat Collection System” (Wescor) to sample sweat, and
anion-exchange chromatography to determine its chloride
content. The chromatographic system consists of a What-
man Partisil SAX 10-m coiumn, an isocratic phosphate-
buffered mobile phase, and ultraviolet detection at 200 nm.
The sweat chloride concentrations of 10 individuals with
cystic fibrosis ranged from 101 to 131 mmol/L (mean 111, SD
9 mmol/L). For 11 controls the values ranged from 13 to 54
mmol/L (mean 28, SD 11 mmol/L). We conclude that the
procedure is reliable for the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis.

Additional Keyphrases: reference interval (disease and normal)
: pilocarpine iontophoresis - Macroduct Sweat Collection Sys-
tem + vapor pressure osmometry compared

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is usually suspected on clinical
grounds, and the diagnosis is confirmed by finding an above-
normal electrolyte concentration in sweat, as reflected by
chloride, sodium, or osmolality. Various analytical tech-
niques for these sweat determinations include chloridome-
tric titration (2), chloride-selective electrodes (2), electrical
conductivity (3), and most recently, osmometry (¢, 5). We
used a commercial sweat-collection system to obtain our
sweat samples, and we have developed a liquid-chromato-
graphic procedure for determining the concentration of
chloride in sweat.

Materials and Methods

Apparatus. For chromatographic analyses we used a
Varian 5020B liquid-chromatographic system equipped
with a UV-100 detector that was interfaced with a Varian
4270 integrator (all from Varian Associates, Instrument
Division, Palo Alto, CA 94303), and a 250 x 4.6 mm (i.d.)
Partisil-10 SAX column (Whatman Inc., Clifton, NJ 07014),
operated at 22°C. The mobile phase was KH,PO, (10
mmol/L, pH 4.6). The flow rate was 2.0 mL/min from 0 to §
min, then 0.7 mL/min until the chloride peak was complete-
ly eluted, at about 10 min. The pressure was 10 133 kPa
(100 atm) at 2.0 mL/min, then 4053 kPa (40 atm) at 0.7
mL/min. The wavelength for detection was 200 nm. We

University of Rochester Schoo! of Medicine and Dentistry, De-
partment of Pediatrics, Box 777, Rochester, NY 14642.
Received May 3, 1985; accepted June 25, 1985.

injected 5 yL of sweat for each sample. The concentration of
chloride in sweat was determined by the area under the
chloride peak, as compared with those of known chloride
standards, for which absorbance at 200 nm was linearly
related to physiological concentrations of chloride in sweat
(0-150 mmol/L).

For comparison, we determined sweat osmolality with a
vapor pressure osmometer (Wescor, Logan, UT 84321), a
method shown to be reliable in the diagnosis of CF (4, 5).

Reagents. We used reagent-grade monobasic potassium
phosphate and doubly distilled de-ionized water to prepare
the mobile phase, which was then filtered and de-gassed.
Standard chloride solutions were prepared with doubly
distilled de-ionized water and reagent-grade sodium chlo-
ride.

Procedures. We sampled sweat from 10 individuals with
CF and from 11 normal controls, using the “Macroduct
Sweat Collection System” (Wescor) (4), This system uses
pilocarpine iontophoresis followed by sweat collection in a
“Macroduct’—a disposable, half-dollar size, plastic device
that fits snugly over the iontophoresed skin and is secured
by Velcro straps. The sweat flows into a small hole at the
center of the “Macroduct” and into a microbore spiral plastic
tube. The intact sweat is then directly injected into the
chromatographic system.

Resulis and Discussion

The sweat. chloride concentrations and sweat osmolalities
of the CF individuals and controls are shown in Table 1. In
patients with CF the concentrations of chloride in sweat
were 101 mmol/L or more, whereas controls had values 54
mmol/L or less. These results were consistent with the
known phenotypes of the controls and the CF patients. In
addition, there was complete agreement of the sweat chlo-
ride concentrations with the sweat osmolality determina-
tions.

This anion-exchange chromatographic method for diagno-
sis of CF is simple, rapid, and inexpensive. The procedure is
made possible by the ease and reliable procurement of sweat
with the Macroduct Sweat Collection System, a system that
potentially can be used in connection with a variety of
analytical techniques.

This sweat collection system overcomes many of the
problems of previous approaches (6). Its advantages include:
no condensate error, an easily visible sample, complete
recovery of sweat (ie., there is almost no dead space),

CLINICAL CHEMISTRY, Vol. 31, No. 10,1985 1715