approach it in some areas. In general, other indoor pollutants~in this
building, including tobacco smoke, were only found at low levels, but there
can be no doubt that this building was found to be poorly ventilated,
especially in the areas where complaints originated.

As an incidental point, this study complements other work'® in that
airborne measurements alone might fail to reveal the obvious causes of air
quality problems in a building such as this. While individual pollutant
levels remain under acceptable standards, a knowledgeable and thorough
inspection of the mechanical systems helps to reveal not only the origin of
current complaints, but potential for future ones. .

Recommendations for improvements in this building included opening of the
outside air dampers to allow in the minimum outside air ventilation rate of 20
cfm per person, as recommended in ASHRAE Standard 62-89. Also, that the
loading dock be equipped with signs instructing drivers to switch their
engines off; cleaning and sanitizing of the condensate trays and other areas
inside the main AHUs showing visible fungal growth; opening of the ceiling
void in areas where slab-to-slab partitioning had been erected; and review of
the VAV damper setting policy to ensure adequate fresh air delivery into the
occupied spaces.

DISCUSSION

A simplistic overview of these contrasting buildings indicates that the
older government building on the east coast suffered from very poor filtration
and relatively high levels of dirt, while the newer commercial office building
suffered mainly from ventilation related problems. The contrasting
engineering characteristics, however, gave rise to very similar complaints
from the building occupants. In our view, this demonstrates that at least at
the initial stages of an investigation, little information can be gained from
occupant questionnaires which will be ultimately useful in solving indoor air
quality problems.

Major flaws in air quality related operation and maintenance practices
need to be corrected first before indulging in questionnaires, or indeed, any
other disruptive practices such as occupant shuffling, carpet removal, or
smoking bans. Further problems with occupant questionnaires are likely to be
resistance to such an exercise by building management or occupant employers,
and the real possibility that questions on health symptoms generate occupant
anxiety and eventually lead to a "snowballing" political issue, uncontained by
the original and possibly quite genuine complaints. Premature removal of
suspect carpets or smoking bans before checking the engineering evaluation
would usually only provide temporary relief and other pollutant accumulations
would probably manifest themselves at a later date.

Eiltration. One of the biggest contrasts noted in these two buildings were
the filtration systems, one of which was rated as very poor, and the other as
excellent. Because choice and maintenance of filtration systems plays an
important part in indoor air quality, standards for rating them are crucial to
a successful engineering appraisal of an HVAC system. The current ASHRAE
Standard 52-76 requests that filter manufacturers specify both a weight test
and a dust spot test for each class of filter.

11

TI10991-0510