Table III. Selected quantitative sampling results (continued).

Type test Building A Building B
Airborne microbes Qutdoors >1250 700
(efu/m) Mean - Indoors 707 457
Range 138->1250 185-816
Standard deviation 499 153
Fungal species Penicillium Aspergillus
identified from Aspergillus Cladosporium
surface and airborne Penicillium
sampling Scopulariopsis
Acremonium
Candida
Oospora
Chrysosporium

Miscellaneous gases (nitrogen dioxide, lower and higher range hydrocarbons,
ozone, ammonia, and sulphur dioxide); nome of these were found above the
detection limit of the method used and are, therefore, not included in this
table.

Key:

ppm = parts per million

ug/m? = micrograms per cubic meter

cfu/m? = colony forming units per cubic meter

 

In summary, this building reflected the age in which it was designed in
that it was built long before the energy crisis which forced ventilation
system designers to create more energy efficient systems, As a result, it is
equipped with a large number of air handling units bringing in relatively high
volumes of outside air, and expelling equally large volumes of air via a
powerful exhaust system. This is reflected in the carbon dioxide measurements
which indicate the building, overall, was well ventilated. The powerful
exhaust system also appeared to be removing internally generated particulates
which were not at excessive levels. The building, however, was fitted with a
very poor filtration system, and as a result of this along with its age, the
air handling systems were dirty. These high dirt loads subsequently gave rise
to relatively high airborne microbe counts and the presence of some species of
fungi which are known to cause allergenic reactions in sensitive individuals.
Most other commonly found indoor pollutants, including carbon monoxide,
environmental tobacco smoke, and oxides of nitrogen were found at low levels
in most areas, primarily because of the satisfactory ventilation rates.

Recommendations for improvements in this building included a substantial
upgrade of the filtration system to at least filtering rated to 35% by
ASHRAE's atmospheric dust spot test (ASHRAE 52-76);"3 cleaning work in each
air handling unit, and FAIU repair and biocidal treatment of the condensate
trays; decommissioning of the humidifier reservoirs during the humid east
coast summer months; repair to loose internal insulation; and the treatment of
cleaned surfaces with a broad spectrum biocidal spray.

T10991-0507