well as an outdoor control sample point. The following parameters were
measured at each location where relevant and appropriate:

a

Respirable airborne particle counts using a piezoelectric microbalance
{TSI, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota). This microbalance measures particles
in the 0,01 to 3.5 micrometer size range. It has a nominal sensitivity
of 180 micrograms per Hz and was used in the 120 second mode. Flow rate
through the piezobalance was periodically checked at one liter per minute
with a bubble flow meter, and the sensor was cleaned with alcohol swabs
after every five measurements. The unit is factory calibrated with
diluted welding fumes which have shown equivalence to indoor RSPs to
+10%. The lower detection limit was set at 10 hem’?

Carbon dioxide levels using a non-dispersive infrared absorption portable
gas analyzer, sensitive to 50 ppm (CO,). Accuracy is +2% over full scale
(CEA Instruments, Inc., Emerson, New Jersey). Periodic calibration of
the instrument was with a factory supplied span gas of 5,000 ppm CO.
Zero was set with dry nitrogen gas and the lower detection limit was set
at 50 ppm.

Carbon monoxide concentrations using 4 controlled potential electrolysis
detector, accurate to 10% full scale (Sensidyne Inc., Largo, Florida).
Periodic calibration of the instrument was with a factory supplied span
gas of 50 ppm carbon monoxide. The minimum detection limit was set at 1
Ppa.

Airborne nicotine (after Ogden et al)® with a personal universal flow
sampling pump (SKC Inc., Eighty-Four, Pennsylvania) drawing air at one
liter per minute for a period of one hour through unfiltered KAD4
absorbent resin tubes which collected a portion of particulate as well as
gaseous phase nicotine. Each tube contained an 80 mg front and 40 mg
rear portion of resin to detect any sample break-through. Samples
showing reduced collection efficiency, where nicotine was found in the
rear tube above our detection Limit, were rejected. Samples were
desorbed into ethyl acetate containing 0.01% triethylamine and analyzed
with gas chromatography (fused silica DB-5 column and thermionic-specific
nitrogen-phosphorus detector, Hewlett Packard Model 5880A). Sampling
pumps were calibrated daily to one liter per minute with a "Gilibrator"
bubble flow meter (Gilian Instrument Corporation, Wayne, New Jersey).

The gas chromatograph was calibrated with freshly prepared nicotine
standards. All samples and blanks were doped with an internal standard.
Results are expressed in total micrograms converted to vem, and the
detection limit for our sampling rate of lmin’' for a one hour period was
1.6 pgm of air. Supplemental measurements of carbon dioxide,
temperature, and relative humidities were also made at each location, so

that an assessment of environmental tobacco smoke levels as a whole could
be made.

Temperature using a miniature platinum Pt 100 resistance sensor,
conforming to 1/2DIN 43760, Class A (The Dickson Company, Addison,
Illinois). Resolution was to 0.06°C and accuracy was +0.3°C. The unit
was factory calibrated and checked periodically against dry bulb
thermometers.

T10991-0502