The arrestance test involves a standardized synthetic dust consisting of
various particle sizes which is fed into the filter and the weight fraction of
the dust removed is determined. The synthetic dusts used are considerably
coarser than typical atmospheric dusts in general and indoor air particulate
in particular, Since most of the weight of dusts is in the larger particles,
the arrestance values are usually high, but these values give no indication of
the filter's capability to remove the smaller particles, In general,
arrestance values are virtually useless in choosing the suitability of filters
for indoor air. The alternative is the atmospheric dust spot test, where
atmospheric test dust is passed into the filter and the discoloration effect
of the cleaned air is compared with the incoming air. This test does include
many of the smaller particles since, although they are small and light, these
particles do still soil walls, etc. A disadvantage of this test exists due to
the variability of atmospheric dusts, which may cause the same filter to yield
different efficiencies at different times or locations. Even this atmospheric
dust spot test is unreliable at the smaller particle size range, i.e., below
1.0 microns in diameter. All the ASHRAE Atmospheric Dust Spot Test results
give efficiency ratings that are representative of particles greater than 1.0
micron. However, when the suitability of filters from a point of view of human
health is considered the sub-micron size particles are of most concern since
these are the ones that penetrate deep into the respiratory system and into
the lungs. In general, the sum of all the particles of less than 3.5 microns
in diameter is described as the Respirable Suspended Particulate (RSP),
although most of these particles are less than 1 micron in diameter.

In order to make assessments and encourage improvements of filtration
systems from the standpoint of an indoor air quality practitioner, some means
of comparing filters according te a nationally recognized test procedure that
addresses respirable particles is needed. One possible solution to this
requirement would be the development of a "standard indoor dust." HVAC
filters could then be assessed by their ability to remove this dust from an
airstream within their rated airflow capacity. Possibly, with the appropriate
standard testing equipment, this dust could be used to test an entire
filtration assembly in situ.

CONCLUSIONS

This study consisted of comprehensive evaluations of two identically
sized, yet contrasting office buildings. Despite similar complaints of
primarily upper respiratory problems in both buildings, air quality problems
were traced to entirely different origins. This calls into question the
usefulness of occupant questionnaires in such cases. The two buildings
demonstrate markedly different filtration characteristics in particular, which
highlights a need for a standard method of evaluation of in situ building
filtration systems. A standard indoor air test dust is proposed as a start in
developing such a method.

12

T10991-0511