me)

Veer

Building B

System Description. Building B is approximately eight years old and stands
24 stories tall. There is a basement level, a mezzanine above the first
floor, and a penthouse that houses one of two mechanical equipment rooms, the
other being in the basement.

The building comprises approximately 600,000 square feet of space and
housed close to 1,200 commercial office tenants at the time of our inspection.
Conditioned air is provided by two main air handler units (AHUs), one located
in the basement and the other in the penthouse. Each are served by a cooling
tower mounted on the roof and chillers located in the basement.

The system is a variable air volume (VAV) type delivering air via 14 Vav
boxes located in the ceiling volds of each floor. Heating requirements are
met by perimeter located reheat boxes in the ceiling voids, there being no
requirement to heat the core of the building. The two main air handlers
operate in a similar manner.

Fresh air is drawn to the building and fed to the air handlers via
openings in the second floor and on the rooftop. One obvious potential
problem with the second floor AHU concerned the location of its fresh air
intake. The intake was located directly over the loading bay and was also
immediately adjacent to the garage. During high activity in the garage and
high use of the loading dock, it is probable that vehicle exhaust fumes
(especially hot diesel fumes from trucks using the loading area) will be
induced into the air intake. This could result in complaints on any of the
floors, 1 through 13, served by this unit.

In each air handling unit, the air then passes into a mixing chamber and
then through a set of high quality two inch pleated panel filters. The single
chamber heating and cooling system is followed by a twin variable pitch air
supply fan arrangement, which feeds supply air into round vertical air supply
ducts to the various floors.

On each floor the final supply to the occupied areas was via 14 variable
air volume boxes per floor, The VAV boxes were designed with a minimum set
point for the dampers. However, this setting resulted in too powerful an air
jet at the diffusers so the units were modified to do away with the minimum
setting and subsequently they can close completely. The perimeter areas on
each floor were equipped with reheat boxes which draw in return air from the
ceiling void through a spun glass furnace filter, then an electric heating
coil, and then back into the occupied areas.

qe

Return air from the office space enters the ceiling wetd through light
troffers. The ceiling void acts as a return air plenum and thus it is
important that these plenums are not compartmentalized, Air moves across the
veid to stub ducts linking each void to the return air shaft located on the
east side of the building. The low rise AHU draws air down this return shaft
into the basement, The return air can be either exhausted through a set of
eight exhaust fans per AHU, or it is mixed with a portion of fresh air ina
prefilter chamber to start the cycle over again. It was noted at this
inspection that the tenth floor ceiling voids had been partitioned from slab

ae
»t

T10991-0508