building is good the levels of airborne pollutants are found in low and
acceptable levels; where ventilation is inadequate then they are found in
correspondingly higher and unacceptable levels.

RESULTS
Characteristics of Building A

System Description. Building A is approximately 50 years old with six
occupied floors, five above ground and one underground basement level. The
building comprises an area of approximately 605,000 square feet and houses
about 3,500 government employees.

Heating, air conditioning and ventilation of the building is provided for
by approximately 103 air handlers. Many of these units are located throughout
the floor space of each level and generally serve adjacent or proximal areas
close to the air handler. The larger air handlers, chose serving designated
areas on a number of floors, are located in the penthouse. A number of other
large air handlers, serving large spaces on the first floor, are located in
various fan rooms in the basement. Our study focused on a representative
number of both the penthouse and basement air handling units and the
associated systems.

The design of the air handling system was such that relatively large
volumes of outside air could be drawn in through either the penthouse or the
basement units, through banks of poor quality one inch spun glass filters.

The penthouse units were typical of air handling systems of this age in that
they were constructed with dual chambers, one each for heating and cooling.
Vertical air supply shafts then deliver air either to ceiling-mounted supply
diffusers in the interior areas of the building, or forced air induction units
(FAIU) around the perimeter. The return system for this building consists of
3'x3"’ return grilles set in corridors which lead back to large vertical return
shafts connecting with either the basement or penthouse units.

Exhaust is provided by large exhaust fans located in the penthouse which
draw ducted air from grilles in the ceilings on each floor. This is
supplemented with toilet exhaust. The air volumes in this building were once
controlled by static pressure sensors in the floor spaces which worked in
conjunction with vortex vanes on the air handling unit air supply fans, along
with an air relief mechanism. This volume control system had been
disconnected, allowing the building to run essentially as a constant volume
system, The system was set to run 24 hours a day.

The original air handling system described above has been added to as the
building underwent renovations over the course of time.

System Condition. Both the penthouse and the basement units were in need of
some maintenance work to bring them up to a satisfactory condition. The
preheat coils in the penthouse unit were not fitted with filters and were
found to be clogged with dirt, Other filters were found to be loosely fitted
and therefore operating at severely reduced efficiency. Virtually all of the
units were found to be in need of a vacuuming out of loose dirt. The
condensate trays and humidifier reservoirs were often in poor condition and

T10991-0505