° Relative humidity using a chromed layered capacitative electrode (Dickson
Company, Addison, Illinois). Resolution was 0,1% relative humidity and
accuracy was to +0.2% relative humidity at 23°C. Temperature drift was
40.05% relative humidity per 1.1°C, The unit was pre-calibrated with a
factory supplied salt solution containing lithium chloride (12% relative
humidity) and sodium chloride (75% relative humidity).

The following parameters were measured in at least two selected locations in
each building:

° Miscellaneous gases using Gastec calibrated detector tubes (Sensidyne
Inc., Largo, Florida) as follows; nitrogen dioxide (DL ~ 0.2 ppm); low
range hydrocarbons (DL — 0.01%); high range hydrocarbons (DL = 20 ppm);
ozone (DL — 0.05 ppm); ammonia (DL = 0.15 ppm); sulphur dioxide (DL = 0.1
ppm). An outdoor control was taken at each building. These screening
measurements have an accuracy of approximately 425%.

a Airborne microbial counts using a centrifugal air sampler employing
impaction onto an agar lined drum (Biotest Diagnostics, Frankfurt, W.
Germany). The sampler had a separation volume of 40 lmin™! and each agar
strip was exposed for a two minute period. A GK-A culture medium strip
was used which is suitable for total counts. Incubation was at 30 to
35°C for 48 hours, followed by counting and species identification. An
outdoor control was taken at each building.

° Formaldehyde using midget impingers containing sodium bisulphite followed
by spectrophotometric analysis, after NIOSH Method P&CAM 125N (now NIOSH
Method 3500). Accuracy is approximately +10%, and detection limit was
set at 0.01 ppm.

Standards

The visual inspections provided evidence of the physical state of the air
handling plant and how it was being operated and maintained. The levels of
the airborne pollutants measured were compared with recognized standards where
they were available, where none existed they were compared with levels which
in HBI's experience have been found to be satisfactory. Table I shows the
parameters measured and standards used to assess air quality in the buildings.

Microbes

There are no established standards for airborne microbes in the indoor
air of office or other commercial buildings, although over many years attempts
have been made to set acceptable upper limits.’-8-? Based on the experience
gained in more than 63 million square feet of building space HBI suggest an
upper acceptable Limit of 750 colony forming units per cubic meter of air with
the provision that if the total airborne count is lower but species known to
cause allergies or infections are identified even this figure may be
unacceptable and steps should be taken to control them. From the results of
more than 200 studies world-wide’? members of the same four fungal genera,
namely cladosporium, penicillium, aspergillus and alternaria, have been found
to account fer the highest mean percentages isolated and from data based on
skin reactivity studies’ the same four types constituted the most prevalent

4

T10991-0503