METHODOLOGY

Although a standard approach was used to survey each building, it
required flexibility to cope with the different types of buildings examined.

Initial Walk Through

Since one of the objectives of this study was to assess maintenance
standards, each building evaluation commenced with an interview with the
personnel responsible for maintenance of the building. Questions were
designed to elicit operative details such as system on/off times; outside air,
return air and exhaust settings; scheduled maintenance routines; and complaint
areas. This part of the survey did not include questioning of the occupants
themselves, however. There was a walk through of each building to identify
obvious building configurations or design features which could influence air
quality in the occupied areas. This was followed by a visual inspection of
the internals of the building's ventilation system. This consisted of the
internal chambers of the air handling units including the condition of the
coils, fan chambers, humidifiers and condensate trays, and a detailed
assessment of the type, installation and condition of the filters in use,

A visual inspection was done of the internals of the main air supply
ductwork leaving each air handling unit, Where necessary, access was gained
to this ductwork by the installation of a small access port and the insertion
of a fiber optic borescope.

Qualitative Sampling

In each air handling unit and main air supply duct a series of samples
were also collected on cellulose ester filters for light microscopy analysis
and surface microbe samples were collected on Random Organism Detection and
Counting (RODAC) agar plates to be subsequently incubated, counted, and
identified.

A laser particle counter with a size selective inlet for sampling
particles with an aerodynamic diameter of 0.5 microns and above (Met One Inc.,
Oregon) was used to count particles inside the ductwork. At least two points
were sampled inside each major run of ductwork. This qualitative information
on the building, along with the location of che samples and the building

engineer questionnaire was prepared on a set of standard field notes to ensure
consistency.

Quantitative Air Sampling

Due to time constraints, a quantitative assessment of air volume flows
in, around and out of each building was outside the scope of this work.
Instead, other measurements, such as that for carbon dioxide, were used to
assess ventilation rates.

A set of locations were identified in each building to be used for

quantitative airborne sampling. These locations were spread evenly throughout
the study area of each building with a minimum of two locations per floor, as

TI10991-0501