Two Indoor Air Quality Investigations -- Oceans Apart

Simon Turner
Healthy Buildings International Inc. (HBI)
10378 Democracy Lane
Fairfax, Virginia 22030
U.S.A.

INTRODUCTION

A commonly seen method of indoor air evaluations in buildings perceived
as “sick" involves an engineering study of a building in conjunction with a
questionnaire administered to its occupants. As a result we now have evidence
that tighter, air conditioned buildings generate higher incidence of upper
respiratory complaints than naturally ventilated buildings.':? However, this
combination of engineering evaluation and occupant questionnaire as a
diagnostic method for sick buildings has not provided us with the ability to
predict the cause of indoor air problems from occupant symptoms.

One major reason for this appears to be that many common irritants found
in indoor air result in a similar range of upper respiratory symptoms. Many
diagnosed “sick" buildings are reported to have their causes rooted in
ventilation, filtration or hygiene problems which allow a mixture of low level
pollutants to build up 2-4 These irritate occupants in a complex and
possibly synergistic manner, the mechanism of which is largely unknown to us.

To demonstrate the range of engineering characteristics which can produce
similar complaints of sick building syndrome, this paper presents two case
histories of identically sized buildings, the studies of which were completed
in July of 1989. One of these buildings (designated as Building A) was
located in Washington D.C., and the other (designated as Building 3) was
located in San Diego, California. Both buildings are 600,000 square feet in
size and a full description of their respective characteristics is found in
the results section.

Symptomology

The following symptoms were reported in Building A during the year
previous to this study: sneezing and/or coughing; sinus congestion; dry nasal
passages; post nasal drip; rashes amd dry skin; headache; breathing
difficulties; sore throat; drowsiness; fatigue; eye irritation. In Building 5
the following complaints were noted over the same period of time: odors;
headaches; shortness of breath; eye irritation; dizziness. These symptoms in
both buildings compare well with the classic symptomology of the sick building
syndrome as defined in the Commission of the European Communities Report --
Sick Building Syndrome, A Practical Guide) which lists the symptoms as
follows: nasal irritation with nasal stuffiness; dryness and irritation of the
mucous membrane of the eye; dryness and irritation of the throat; skin dryness
and irritation; headaches, generalized lethargy and tiredness.

T10991-0500