to slab by the tenants of this space, resulting in severely reduced return air
flow.

Originally the return air shaft travelled uninterrupted from the basement
to the penthouse, providing return air for both units. Apparently there were
air balance problems so a divider was built at the 13th floor level of the
shaft to completely separate the air from each unit.

System Condition. Both main air handling units were found to be operating on
100% return air with the outside air dampers completely closed on the days of
our inspection (maximum outside air temperature was 76°F). Both sets of
filters were in excellent condition and well fitted in their frames. The
filter chambers themselves were clean, There was some slime accumulation and
standing water associated with the condensate trays, and some light fungal
spots were found on flex ducting and insulation inside some of the chambers.
The VAV boxes examined in this imspection all appeared to be in generally
clean condition. Several of them had their dampers totally closed at the time
of our inspection.
pakuch code une

The reheaters were equipped with low grade panel filters. Some of the
loose spray-on insulation had passed through these filters since some light
residues were caught up on the heater coils. In general, however, these units
were found to be clean.

Visual inspections of the air supply duct internals showed them to be
deposited with only trace or light amounts of brown granular materials.
Airborne sampling results for this building are shown on Table III. These
show low levels of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and nicotine, but
higherlevels of RSP, formaldehyde and in some areas airborne microbes.

In summary, this building reflected its relatively young age and
location. The building with a sealed "mirror" finish is typical of most
contemporary office structures. It was designed and built at che height of
the energy crisis and as a result, ventilation rates in the occupied spaces
are at a practical minimum both due to the relatively restrictive design of
the air supply system, and by its apparently routine operation with little or
no outside air. One might expect to see these low ventilation rates result in
high levels of carbon dioxide, but as seen in Table III, this is not the case.
This is because of relatively light occupant density, with less than half the
number of occupants than were found in Building A. Should the building ever
be occupied to occupant densities more common in government buildings, we
would expect these carbon dioxide levels to rise substantially, especially in
workday afternoons. A further contrast is found in the filtration system,
which was generally in an excellent, well maintained condition. This,
together with the fact that the building is relatively young, had lead to
systems which remain in a generally satisfactory clean condition. As a
result, dust levels were found to be penerally satisfactory, with only a few
areas showing RSP levels over 75 pg/m

Several types of potentially allergenic fungi were isolated from the
mechanical rooms where visible growth was observed, but overall airborne

levels in the occupied areas were not excessive. We did note the presence of
formaldehyde, which while not at levels which breached the ASHRAE limit, did

10

T10991-0509