THE THEATRE

:New Plays in Manhattan

' The: Male Animal (by James Thurber
& Elliott Nugent; produced by Herman
Shumlin) provides Broadway—in a season
tich only in comedy-—with another comedy
hit. A frail, rachitic tyke of a play, with
barely enough clothes to cover it, The
Male Animal manages to captivate by its
impish tongue and winning smile. It re-
sembles a dinner party where there isn’t
nearly enough food but where the conver-
sation is so amusing that nobody minds.

. James Thurber, famous for iustrating

The War Between the Sexes with his run-
: (IVORY TIPS PROTECT YOUR LIPS—aise made with Flala Eads}

1 Only a few extra pennies buys

e aren

much more! Superb tobaccos... definite
distinction...immaculate ivory tips. A
Product of Philip Morris.

MARLBORO

FOR THOSE WHO CAN AFFORD 20% FOR THE BEST

James THurzer (SELF-PORTRAIT)
Good conversation, not enough food,

away pencil, has curried the combat to the
stage. The Male Animal tells of a young
English professor (Elliott Nugent) .who
has all the trouble that Thucher thinks the

male animal is born to. The prof gets MOST OF THE TIME?
branded a Red for wanting to read one of ‘That alleshot feeling may be a storm
Vanzetti’s letters to his class. He gets alt signal your energy is running low!

tingled up with his wife when an old Stimulants only drain it more. What

=" ” < < mn you've got to do is to rebuild your
sweetheart of hers comes to town for a vadurance. This new, amazing way

football game. A_Milquetoast by nature, does the job on women as well as men.
the professor’ quaiis too much of the cup sane Pula uP your endurance by
° i da rious - & 4 envelopes 0! ox Gelatine
that emboldens, and in a hilarious drunk Gady for 2 wees, Then, take 2 en-
scene decides to hold his mate as bull ele- velopes daily for 2 more ine. “After
phants, swans, land crabs do—by fighting sts, take whenever you feel a slump. ies De
for her. He does hold her, but not with ts in building endurance have
his fists; it turns out that the old beau’s been proved in colleges and hundreds DRY POWDER SNOW
: : was of controlled test-cases. *
interest is only pigskin deep. Write for Bulletin E. Knox Gelatine, UNTIL LATE MAY... in the
The Male Animal serves up its bit of Johnstown, N. Y. Dept. 64

a . mane ‘Knox, the pure plain gelatine in the CANADIAN ROCKIES
plot successively as roast turkey, creamed familiar gr ‘Sore package, is the

turkey, turkey hash, scraps, soup, and only gelatine which has actually proved . . .
bones for the dog. Fortunately, Play- this endurance-building property. Expect of beginner, there feo, kind af
wright Thurber’s insane, melancholy stant HOW TO TAKE: Empty 1 envelope (14 Canadian Rockies. Perfect, “dey. powder
on life fills the play with fresh and free- package) Knox Gelatine in glass 4 snow autil May... hundreds of runs and
flowing laughter. Frustration is leavened ae ee water or frm eee rot ski teips, Excellent accommodations at
jnto nonsense, indignation is alkalized by gelatine. ‘Then stir briskly, drink before smi ca
good nature. Admirably cast and directed Lodge out from Banff; Moun!

by Producer Shumlin, The Male Auimat and Shoki Lodges near Lake Louise. Rates
ie a say evening in the theatre in spite of » COMING TO NEW YORK? vuilalie. Fast Canadien Pacilc. train

service to Banff and Lake Louise. Canada

ths lo welcomes U.S. citizens—no passports.
John Hemty elie: produced. by wieitiase de Your Nerat Cavaing Becilis Ofe
music lacques Wolfe; produced by j iy baths, neal Tourist Agent, Montrea
Sam Bea took Paul Robeson back to “SEEING NEW YORK™ 41 Offices in U. S, and Canada
Broadway after nearly eight years. The
stage seemed set for a great return. The
play was by the man whose stories bad in- WORLO S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM

 

 

Time, January 22, 1940 49

 

2061012559