JOURNAL OF SURGICAL RESEARCH 40, 445-449 (1986)

Demonstration of Lipolytic Activity from Cultured Human Melanoma Cells

DAVID M. HOLLANDER, M.D.,*! DENNIS F. DEVEREUX, M.D., M.Sc.,*
CICEK GERCEL TAYLOR, PH.D.,f AND DoUGLAS D. Tayior, Pu.D,t

“Surgical Oncology Research Laboratory, Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, New Jersey, and
tDepartment of Microbielogy, Bosion University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts

Presented at the Annual Meeting of the Association for Academic Surgery,
Cincinnati, Ohio, November LO-13, 1985

Cancer bearing is often accompanied by debilitating cachexia manifested as body weight loss and
derangements of host metabolism. We studied lipolytic (fat-mobilizing) activity and glycerol accumulation
in culture media exposed to six different human cell lines. An in vitro adipocyte bioassay measured
lipolysis. Media from three of four human melanoma celt lines demonstrated significantly elevated
hpolytic activities (279-81 7% of fibroblast-exposed, contro! medium), as well as significantly more glyceral
accumulation (276-1643% of fibroblast medium) which directly correlated with the increased lipolytic
activity. Increased lipolytic activity and glycerol accumulation were not generalized phenomena seen
with all growing tumar cells. as two cell lincs (a human colon carcinoma and the fourth human melanoma
line) demonstrated neither significantly increased lipolytic activity nor increased glyceral accumulation
compared to fibroblast control medium. This study supgests that certain tumor cells are capable of
transferring a lipalysis-promoting activity to the media which bathe them. This activity is demonstrable
both as increased lipolytic activity in a bioassay of lipolysis, and as an accumulation of glycerol {an end
product of trigtyceride lipolysis), in the medivm exposed to the growing cells. ‘The tumor factor(s) re-
sponsible for this lipolysis-promoting activity may account for the fat wasting that ofien accompanies

malignancy. © 1986 Academic Press, Inc.

INTRODUCTION

One of the most devastating complications
of cancer is the uncontrollable weight loss and
energy wasting (“the cachexia of malignancy”)
which plagues the tumor host [t, 2]. Numer-
ous mechanisms [2, 3] have been praposed,
including anorexia and malabsorption (both
tumor-related and iatrogenic), and derange-
ments of host metabolism. Modern methads
of hyperalimentation have not succeeded in
reversing cancer cachexia despite the achieve-
ment of high parenteral caloric intake [4],
leaving one to conclude that altered host me-
tabolism is important in the pathagenesis of
this malnourished state.

Lipid metabolism in the experimental tu-
mor-bearing host undergoes several changes
which are reversible by tumor removal [5~7]
and which are quite different than those ac-

‘To whom requests for reprints should be addressed.

 

445

 
 

companying starvation or sepsis alone [8]. The
disappearance of retroperitoneal fat stores,
coupled with the concomitant development
of hyperlipidemia, and the reversal of these
abnormalities after tumor excision [5, 6],
prompted us to search for a tumor-associated
lipolysis-promoting “factor” in our animal
models.

Using an in vitro bioassay of lipolysis (de-
scribed in this paper), elevated lipolysis-pro-
moting activities and glycerol concentrations
were found in the serum of sarcoma-bearing
rats [7] and in culture medium conditioned
by sarcoma cells.? Tumor removal resulted in
normalization of serum Jipolytic activity and
glycerol concentration, and restoration of lost
body weight [7].

The purpose of this study was to determine
whether Auman tumor cell lines also demon-

 
 
 
  

?-—D. M. Hollander, H. Hoppe, and D. F. Devereux, un-
published data,

0022-4804/86 $1.50
Copyright © 1986 by Academic Press. Inc.
All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.