Page Two
Condition Letter - April, 1996

c IT S: (New brands, test brands, extensions,
significant trend changes, including Generics or Price Brands)

PHILIP 3

MARLBORO - In all Regions, sales on. Non-Menthol product continues
to increase. Sales on the Menthol product is showing some
increases (i.e., Honolulu and Region #14). The general feeling
is that increases are: coming from SALEM. Light King and 100’s
Soft. Menthol. are not receiving much, consumer attention.

BASIC - All Regions are showing slow sales.. In Region #15, there
are now three BOX packings: MENTHOL 80, LIGHT 80 and FULL FLAVOR
80... These packings are in Master’s accounts and’ are being
promoted with 20¢ buydown.

DAVE’S - Sales are fair to good in the Seattle/Portland test
market. In the Seattle test market, advertising has been
reduced. In the Portland test expansion, the brand is: in most
retail accounts. and there is heavy advertising support. Sales
are slow but. distribution is very good in. Region #19.

R.J. REYNOLDS:

CAMEL - Sales are strong in Regions’ #14, #15, #19. This: brand
has strong promotional support. and customer loyalty. KAMEL RED
(Region #15) was introduced in February and has very little
distribution and no sales activity.

WINSTON - Overall salies continue to show decreases despite
promotional support in Regions’ #14. & #15 but promotional efforts
in Region #16 have stimulated sales. Support on. SELECT in Region
#14. has: been discontinued.

DORAL - This brand is: being steadily promoted, keeping sales
strong. In Region #16, the new packing has: had. fair trial. but
most purchases are coming from current. brand smokers. Very
active in cigarette stores in Region #14. The Buy Down Program
is a very important factor in their growth in Region #19.

MONARCH - Lack of support and distribution is the reasons for
this brand’s decrease in sales in. Regions’ #14 & #15. GPC is
underpricing this brand in Region. #14

EEETEIZS

MOONLIGHT (Seattle: test) - Distribution is spotty and sales are
fair. Only available through Sales Representatives...