\enmore Motor Co., Inc. a

Niu Yk lage Ford deatirshijt

. \ _
\ >
h Ha i

te

  

x Ay | ones ates «
7 Ye _ olmmreie  pegrermpmemacnnbse era” Fie caf!
PAR SRA EA Pee eS ee SE

 

 

3330 DELAWARE AVENUE Rhyerside 6100 esses
"ER 7 “bh . . , ‘ .
KENMORE 17, NEW YORK

y
Mr. Ede Derr Pres.
ReJe Reynolds Tobacco Co.

1 Exchange Pi.
Sorsey Pity, Node

(TOBACCO DOES NOT CAUSE LUNG CANCER )

This headline would create quite a sensation. Millions of folks who have
ene er ghtened by the publicity, stopped smoking, which they thoroughly
enjoyed.

I em sure you will agree that they are justified in doing 80, because no

one would keep doing something that so many Doctor's end research men have

egreed end disagreed on as the use of Tobacco and the possibility of cont-
racting lung cancer.

While watching a recent Television program, I saw how they had painted the

backe of mice with the tar which had been extracted from smoke of a battery

of cigerette machines. This ter epparently was so strong an irritant that
it destroyed the hair, and efter repeatedly being painted on: the skin of

the mouses: back, eventually did develop e cancerous condition. There must
be many other substances you could use on the mouse and create the same-

condition much quicker.

I have read of the research that hee-been done with humen like action: of the:

cigarette emoking machines, the function of the filter, nicotine comparison

with and without filters etc.

Is it possible that some smokers are contracting Limg Cancer. from sulphur

irritation?

My theory ie:thie.

a- Pipe smokers who use long.matches; always wait. for the match to get a
good flame: before holding it to the bowl of the pipe. Thereby the funmes-
of the: sulphur flame: have been disapated in the air.

be A'cigar smoker follows the same proceedure as the pipe smoker.

c~ A Cigarette smoker gets'a quick light, right off of the sulphur fleme.
Cigarette esmokere:have universally formed a habit of cupping the: flame
of the-match, whether it is:for there: own Tight or. in offering to light
the cigarette: of a friend.

This. proceedure has happened many thousends:of times-in my presents: in
the past thirty five yeare:that Ivhave smoked cigarettes; however the
other day while playing. golf Iiwas offered a light by one of the foureome:
who also had the habit of cupping his:hands-to-protect the flame which

 

OLLO S8Z0gS