ee ee he ate et tee ae arn at eel

Dot ne hla aati atl

 

an Nw Vir 3 lags Ford dialtirsliyt

|
|
l ae

yy Pee: eT

  
   

\enmore Motor Co., Inc.

 

3330 DELAWARE AVENUE Riverside 6100
KENMORE 17, NEW YORK

ng a slight throat

constriction end spoiling the teste of my fevorite cigerette.

¥hen I! got home, I’ made a simple experiment. I’ took a pack of paper

matches: put: them in an empty soup can, lit them all at once, covered

the cen quickly, to capture the fumes:of the sulphur flame. Just one

slight inhale of’the smoke-isesstifelling.

Your: research departuent has extracted the tar. from the smoke of millions-
of Gigarettes; and hes been able. to produce cancer with this:irritant.

Why not capture the irritants: of millions:of matches and’ see: what it doess

To my 'knowlefge, no one:has given the method of lighting a cigarette: any
consideration.

If cigerettecsmokeraz:are more apt to contract lung cancer: than pipe or
ciger esuokere, there could easily be the difference of the smoker‘inhaieing
the sulphur fumos:by getting the quick light from the flare of the sulphur
flame.

I' suggest you: light a match, let if burn to-an even flame pest the head and
light e cigarette. Take a deep draw and teste the full’ sweetness of the:
tobacco. Then take enother cigarette from the same peck and get a quick
light the moment the match flaress Take-a deep draw end notice the.
difference. .

Thore must’ be a chemical reaction of the sulphur and tobacco: to make the:
teete eo:bad. If your research department could esteblish this-es a fact it

might’ be the enewery why cigarette emokere=are more vulnerable. to-ling.
firitation

Ii em not'a chemist, but I do know:esles; and the power: of advertising

It would be very effective to have Television demonstrations and invite:
millions of folks tostry. the slow. light end then the quick light and taste:
the difference.

the sulphur fumes; causin

gave me the full aroma of

2g

- If I have stumbled onto an. idea thet' would bring tobacco sales:up to-

there former-market, I! would sppreciate hesring from you.
Sincerély yours,

HAE Merdine

Sales Manager’.

  
  
 

yet nse

eee A eee are

LLL0 snzog