es

YER8801.92W Pag
TT Page &

The data indicated that subjects tended to take more puffs, closer together
in time on the PREMIER prototypes than on the tobacco burning cigarettes.
These human puffing patterns resulted in the following mainstream smoke
yields:

CAMEL LIGHT SP-2 SP-4

TPM (mg/cig) 19.4 36.9 26.2 *
NICOTINE (mg/cig) 1.13 1.03 0.84 +
GLYCERIN (mg/cig) 1.27 14.3 10.3 *
co (mg/cig) 20.2 37.8+ 24.4 #

* All groups different from each other p< 0.05. # SP-2 different from
SP-4, p < 0.05. .

+ Indicated cigarette different from Camel Light, p < 0.05.

Human smoking patterns were also "partially" replicated to define the
impact of the timing of particular puffs during the smoking process on
mainstream smoke yields. . These "partial" replications were performed by
stopping the smoking process after 20%, 40%, 60%, 80% or 100% of the total
puff volume for a particular smoking session. This analysis enabled the
determination of mainstream smoke yields during each of the volume segments
‘(i.e., 0-20%, 20-40% etc.). The data were provided to NPT and R&D
management in several formats, and in general supported the concept that
mainstream yields of nicotine, glycerol, and particulate matter were
significantly lower during the first and last 20% of the total puff volume
as compared to the middle 60%. These findings were consistent with
observations that subjects in the human smoking behavior studies seem to
require several puffs to light a PREMIER prototype and may take several
more puffs after the cigarette has extinguished. The "partial" replication
data indicate that these "lighting" puffs and "extinguishing" puffs do not
generate significant amounts of mainstream smoke.

3. Identify, through established lines of communication, emerging
opportunities to apply Biobehavioral Division technology/expertise to
assist the ETS Program.

A. Provide technical expertise to contract study of electrophysiological
responses of rodent trigeminal system to odorants at Wake Forest
University. (Ongoing)

PISS 6EStsS

Dr. Wayne Silver, under contract to RJRT, recorded electrical responses
from one of two branches of the trigeminal nerve which innervate the nasal
cavity in the rat. The goal of this work is to establish an animal model
that can be used to predict the irritancy to humans of environmental
tobacco smoke (ETS) from different products. Dr. Silver has quantified the
responses of the rat trigeminal system to 12 of 13 compounds, which are
also being studied at the Bushy Run Research Center (see 3. C below).

B. Provide technical expertise to contract study of respiratory and
psychophysiological responses of neurologically/structurally compromised
patients at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. (Ongoing)

The research program at UNC-CH is intended to provide a fundamental
understanding of the biological bases of the responses of humans to inhaled
chemicals. The responses of normal individuals are to be compared with