YER8801.92W Page 10

 

°

B. Maintain capability for routine analyses of nicotine/cotinine by
G.C. (Ongoing)

Improvements in the routine analysis of nicotine and cotinine were sought
through a study of Benowitz and Jacob's method of analysis. The

Benowitz/Jacob method provided no significant improvement over the RJRT
method.

Work is underway to extend the limit of quantitation for nicotine and
cotinine to target levels of 0.2 ng/ml nicotine and 0.8 ng/ml cotinine by
concentrating samples. Good resolution of GC peaks has been obtained.

A new software package (PeakPro) for the acquisition of chromatographic
data became available. It was integrated into the nicotine/cotinine
method, resulting in a reduction in the time required for data analysis
from about one to two days to about four hours. PeakPro was used to
analyze the data from both the 1988 Human Study and the ETS Pilot Studies.
An R&DM was prepared describing the use of PeakPro for data acquisition and
its application to nicotine and cotinine chromatographic data.

Preliminary investigation of methods to recover nicotine, cotinine and
hydroxycotinine from both urine and plasma by solid phase extraction was
begun.

Mr. M. F. Stiles was chosen to be a member of the Data Acquisition and
Control (DAC) Users' Group steering committee.

4. Develop additional analytical capability as required.

A. Investigate feasibility of determination of trans-hydroxycotinine in
urine. (6/88)

The determination of hydroxycotinine was demonstrated using the present
nicotine and cotinine method. The resolution of hydroxycotinine was
excellent. Accurate quantitation was achieved both in standard solutions
and in extracted samples spiked with standard solutions. Various methods
of derivatization of hydroxycotinine were researched. Derivatization may
not be necessary for its determination.

B. Develop method for determination of caffeine in plasma and urine.
(8/88)

Caffeine is frequently present in the chromatograms of nicotine and

‘cotinine samples from human subjects. Its detection and resolution from
other peaks are excellent. A linear response was obtained when the
calibration for caffeine was done using the ratio of the caffeine peak area
to that of the internal standard for nicotine, but the PeakPro software
would not permit this application. Six additional compounds were tested as
caffeine internal standards, but all proved to be inappropriate. Dr. P.
Jacob provided a sample of 7-ethyltheophylline, which he uses as the
internal standard in his caffeine method. This compound proved suitable in
our method.

C. Develop improved method for determination of thiocyanate in plasma and
saliva. (5/88)

Six methods were evaluated for the determination of thiocyanate (SCN) in
plasma and urine, including ion-exchange chromatography, colorimetry on
whole blood and ultracentrifugates, a manual version of a continuous flow
colorimetric method, and an HPLC method. A colorimetric method which dia

6TSS 6€eSTS