YER8801.92W Page 12
oS PG TZ
effects of nicotine on a) metabolic activity of the brain and b) in vivo
electrophysiological of selected brain regions. (University of Texas
Health Sciences Center, Dallas, Dr. D. J. Woodward, P.I.) (Decision by
5/88)

A site visit was made to Dr. Woodward's laboratory in February to monitor
the progress of studies of the effects of nicotine on the metabolic
activity of the brain. During this meeting, Dr. Woodward explained that
extensive personnel changes in his laboratory had slowed progress. Dr.
Woodward's lab presented two abstracts at the 1988 annual meeting of the
Society for Neuroscience that described results of work funded by RJRT.
Dr. Woodward's first progress report was received for review.

The results of these studies suggested the following:

a. Nicotine administration in rats can result in increased metabolic
activity in specific brain areas. Brain areas that are most consistently
affected are generally related to visual processing or emotion.

b. The increase in metabolic activation of these brain areas was observed

in awake, behaving animals only. Anesthetics diminished or eliminated the
metabolic responses.

c. Tolerance to the metabolic activating effects of nicotine did not appear
to develop with repeated administration.

Continued funding for this laboratory is not anticipated.

3. Evaluate and continue (if appropriate) research to determine the
genetic factors which influence the physiological and behavioral responses
of the rodent model to nicotine exposure, through extramural contract
research at the University of Colorado, Boulder. (Dr. A. C. Collins, P.I.)
(Ongoing through 1989)

Funding of Dr. Allan Collins (Institute for Behavioral Genetics) continued.
Progress was reported in three areas:

a. Nicotine and stress - The stress response was studied by monitoring the
effects of nicotine on corticosterone release in genetic strains of mice.
The major findings can be summarized as follows:

i. Chronic IV infusion of nicotine resulted in a dose-dependent tolerance
to the effects of nicotine on heart rate, body temperature, Y-maze
activity, and release of corticosterone.

ii. Behavioral tolerances and tolerance to corticosterone release were
related to increased numbers of nicotine receptors and decreased numbers of
corticosterone receptors.

iii. Adrenalectomy resulted in increased sensitivity to nicotine for for
nearly all behavioral and physiological endpoints tested. Corticosterone
reversed this sensitivity.

iv. Nicotine evoked an earlier and greater release of corticosterone in
females.

1zSS 6eSTS

It was concluded from these results that corticosterone or its metabolites
may regulate many of the behavioral and physiological responses to nicotine
in mice. Tolerance to many of nicotine's effects appears to be related to