YER8801.92W Page 6
EEE FED
‘ those from other individuals with structural and/or neurological
alterations of odor perception. The primary accomplishment of the
laboratory during 1988 was the completion of a Human Odor testing facility
modeled after the one developed at BGTC. Calibration of the instrument is
currently underway, and studies will begin immediately following its
completion.

C. Assist in coordination of contract study of respiratory responses of
mice to odorants at Bushy Run Research Center. (Ongoing)

The Bushy Run Research Center (BRRC) in Export, PA was contracted to
measure the respiratory responses of mice to 13 selected compounds.
Measures of respiratory rate, tidal volume, and the durations of expiration
and inspiration are made continuously before, during and after 30-minute
exposures to known concentrations of the compounds. In this way, a detailed
description of the time course of breathing changes, widely accepted as a
measure of irritancy in mice, can be obtained. Six of the 13 selected
compounds were completely characterized during 1988. The remainder are
scheduled for testing in 1989-90.

D. Plan and execute study of human responses to ETS. (5/88)

This series of studies was designed to compare human responses to ETS from
PREMIER and tobacco-burning cigarettes. Initial testing and consultation
with ex-house scientists determined the experimental design and reference
cigarettes to be used.

Three experiments were designed, executed, analyzed, and reported;
including two pilot studies and a final, much larger study. Biobehavioral
Division responsibilities included:

a. Writing and debugging the software which automated all events within
each test session.

b. Ensuring all hardware requirements were met.

c. Preparation of all proposals for these studies for the Human Research
Review Committee.

GTSS 6€STS

d. General responsibility for coordinating the activities of the ETS
analytical chemists with other scientists involved in the project.

e. Coordination of events before and during experimental test sessions.
f. Ensuring that all analytical, psychophysical, physiological and clinical
chemistry data were stored in a central computer.

g. Data analysis and reporting

The two pilot studies provided the following key findings and helped
determine the design of the final study:

a. The concentrations of nicotine in the ETS from the K1R4F cigarette were
approximately 50% higher than those generated by the NOW product.

b. Clear elevations in salivary nicotine were seen following each of
smoking period. With the K1R4F condition, salivary concentrations of
nicotine were about 4 times higher, and about twice as much nicotine was
excreted in urine.

c. The subjects' ballot ratings showed that ETS from the NOW cigarette was