YER8801.92W Page 3

 

‘ study.

Eight male volunteer smokers participated in the pharmacokinetic study.
After smoking the reference cigarettes or PREMIER cigarettes for a
prescribed period of time (1-3 weeks), each subject participated in two
12-hour testing sessions, during which puffing behavior and breathing
behavior were monitored, and plasma samples for analysis of nicotine and
cotinine were obtained. Over 700 plasma samples and 150 urine samples were
obtained and 112 puff-profiles were monitored during the study. The key
results were:

a. There was no daifference in mainstream smoke yields of nicotine between
the reference cigarettes and PREMIER prototypes when smoked under human
smoking conditions. The reference cigarettes and PREMIER prototypes were
matched for nicotine yield under FTC smoking conditions.

b. There were no significant differences in the pharmacokinetic parameters
of nicotine derived from the 2 cigarettes. os

c. Statistically significantly more carbon monoxide (CO) was generated in
the mainstream smoke of the PREMIER prototype when smoked under human
smoking conditions. This was reflected in higher blood carboxyhemoglobin
(SCOHb) in smokers when they smoked the PREMIER prototype. Following the
smoking of 7 cigarettes, the changes in %COHb were 4.42% and 6.03% for
reference cigarettes and PREMIER prototypes, respectively. These data were
used to model %COHb concentrations for a series of hypothetical cigarettes.

d. Significant differences in puffing behavior were noted between the
reference cigarettes and PREMIER prototypes. Smokers took more puffs,
closer together in time on the PREMIER prototype.

e. Excellent predictive equations of absorbed nicotine could be established
with the smoking behavior measures. For both reference cigarettes and
PREMIER prototypes, total puff volume provided the best puffing behavior
correlate of absorbed nicotine.

In the urine mutagenicity study, 32 people (16 males, 16 females) were
tested to determine the effects of smoking the PREMIER prototype on urine
mutagenicity. The smoking group was composed of 8 male and 8 female
smokers while the control group was composed of 8 male and 8 female
non-smokers. Diet was strictly controlled during the test to eliminate
this potential influence on urine mutagenicity. The smokers provided urine
and blood samples while smoking both the reference cigarettes and PREMIER
prototypes to allow comparison of the two cigarettes as well as a
comparison to the non-smoking control group. Non-smokers provided urine
samples only.

Results of the urine mutagenicity portion of the study indicated:

ZTSS 6€STS

a. The urine of smokers was less mutagenic when they smoked the PREMIER
prototype than when they smoked the reference cigarette. The mutagenicity
of the smokers' urine obtained while they smoked the PREMIER prototype was
not statistically significantly different from that obtained from the
non-smoker control group.

b. The serum thiocyanate concentrations of smokers were significantly
reduced when they smoked the PREMIER prototype compared to when they smoked
the tobacco burning cigarette, probably due to the absence of hydrogen
cyanide in the mainstream smoke of the PREMIER prototype. The data were