ee PONS
consistent with a 12-14 day half-life for serum thiocyanate.

Replications of human smoking behavior were performed with the Human Mimic
Smoking Machine (HMSM), in support of the Pharmacokinetic (PK) study. Data
were reported to Dr. J. Robinson for statistical analysis. Five hundred
nineteen puff-profile data files were replicated.

YER8801.92W Page 4

Additional analytical support was provided for both the Urine Mutagenicity
(UM) and the Pharmacokinetic (PK) studies. Analyses for serum thiocyanate,
plasma and urine nicotine and cotinine, and urine creatinine were performed
by RJRT personnel or contracted laboratories in support of the urine
mutagenicity study. Determinations of urine creatinine and serum
thiocyanate were provided by Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. A method
for the determination of serum thiocyanate was implemented by Biobehavioral
personnel. Determination of nicotine and cotinine in plasma and urine was
provided by the laboratory of Dr. N. Benowitz, University of California at
San Francisco. Determinations were made on 160 urine and 720 plasma
samples. Data from all analyses were provided to the primary investigators
for statistical analysis and interpretation.

Measurement of urine creatinine by Roche Biomedical Laboratories, Inc. was
found to be inaccurate. As a result, urine samples from the PK study were
submitted to Forsyth Laboratory Medicine for analysis. Both quality
assurance data and analytical data were satisfactory.

B. Complete manuscripts describing 1987 Human Studies Program. (5/88)

Data collection for the 1987 Human Studies Program was completed in July,
1987. Data analysis is still continuing in some areas because of the
magnitude of the study. The following was accomplished:

a. Smoking behavior and pharmacokinetic data were statistically analyzed
and reported in draft manuscript form. These data were included in the
RJRT Monograph entitled "Chemical and Biological Studies on New Cigarette >
Prototypes that Heat Instead of Burn Tobacco".

b. Data were prepared for presentation at a series of RJRT-sponsored
seminars. These data were also presented to outside consultants and
scientists as required.

€TSs 6eSTs

¢. Manuscripts have been or will be prepared for publication in the
scientific literature. These include three presentations at the Society of
Toxicology Meeting in Dallas (2/88) and the International Symposium on
Nicotinic Receptors in the CNS in Uppsala, Sweden (6/88).

d. A data base of the blood chemistries from the 1987 Human Studies was
established on the Sun computer. The database contains over 36,000
individual test results. Work is underway to merge into the database
results of nicotine/cotinine analyses, smokelab analyses, and urine
mutagenicity portions of the study. A manuscript describing an analysis of
the blood chemistries is in preparation.

C. Complete other studies as required. (Ongoing)

A puff-profile/smoke component dose study was conducted in support of NPT.
Puff-profiles were measured on a panel of 18 RJRT volunteer smokers who
smoked each of three cigarettes; Camel Light, and two PREMIER prototype
cigarettes (SP-2 and SP-4). Puffing parameters were monitored during each
test session, and the recorded profiles were reproduced on the Human Mimic
Smoking Machine (HMSM) for the determination of mainstream smoke yields
under human smoking conditions. Results of this study were presented to
NPT and R&D management.