YER8&801.92W Page &
eee aS

determinations were made in plasma, urine, and saliva. A total of 434
Samples was analyzed for nicotine and cotinine during the two pilot
studies.

Since plasma nicotine and cotinine levels in samples obtained during the
pilot studies were at or below the detection limit of the method, no plasma
samples were taken in the final study. Determinations of nicotine anda
cotinine in the saliva and urine specimens obtained during the final study
were made by Dr. N. Benowitz's laboratory at the University of California
at San Francisco, because samples from higher priority projects were being
analyzed in our laboratory.

E. Establish and oversee research project on saliva and taste at Florida
State University. (L. M. Beidler, P.I.)

This research was designed to study mechanisms through which cigarette
smoke can stimulate the trigeminal and gustatory systems in the oral
cavity. The immediate oro-sensory impact of smoke and "aftertaste" are of
interest. Work to date has been in the rat model. The key accomplishments
during 1988 were as follows:

a. A monoclonal antibody was made to the portion of the saccharin molecule
that is important in taste. It was shown to bind a battery of
sweet-tasting compounds with affinities that are in agreement with human
taste sensitivities to these tastants. This antibody is likely to have
properties similar to a taste receptor protein, and will be used to study
the structural requirements for the perception of both bitter and sweet.

b. A procedure for the radioactive labeling of proteins separated from
different taste papillae was developed.

c. A technique for studying the retention of tastants by the tongue was
developed... Nicotine, caffeine and several sweet tastants are being used in
initial studies on aftertaste.

d. A detailed analysis of the effects of partial removal of salivary glands
on the eating and drinking behavior of the rat was completed. The rats
showed a modest decline in body weight, consumed slightly less food and
water and consumed much more sucrose in fewer anda longer drinking sessions.
These results suggest that taste perception was altered in these animals
because of a change in the chemical composition of saliva.

Program 2. Smoke Component Dose

[ Personnel: Anderson, Bodnar, Davis, Griffith, Ingram, Reynolds, Robinson,
Stiles }

1. Improve methodology to measure, replicate and analyze human smoking
behavior. '

A. Convert the HP86 controller on the Human Mimic Smoking Machine to the
Masscomp computer. (12/88)

LISS 6ESTS

Significant progress was made in converting the computer for controlling
the HMSM for use on the Masscomp computer. This work was performed with
the aid of a contract programmer. The conversion is now scheduled for
completion early in 1989.