YER8801.92W Page 1

 

BIOBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH DIVISION

1988 YEARLY STATUS REPORT

Program 1. Support New Product Technologies, Brand R&D, and the ETS Program

{ Personnel: Fernandes, Griffith, Ingram, Jennings, McKaig, Pritchard,
Reynolds, Robinson, Walker ]

1. Identify, through established lines of communication, emerging

opportunities to apply Biobehavioral Division technology/expertise to
assist Brand R&D.

A. Support Project HSB

i. Provide computer and data acquisition hardware for geographically
dispersed tests of human smoking behavior. (4/88)

Dr. Griffith finalized the Portable Puff-Profiler and Calibrator designs in
the first quarter of 1988. Ferguson Manufacturing was selected to
manufacture 50 profilers. Four calibrators were manufactured in-house by
PT&D personnel. Mr. Alan Norman (Applied R&D) completed software
development for a host computer to manage the subject information, and
worked with contract writers to prepare an operations and training manual
for study procedures. Components and materials for the manufacture of the
profilers were procured and provided by the Biobehavioral Division. Dr.
Griffith worked with a contract programmer to finalize software for the
profilers and, with Mr. Jennings, performed the final assembly, calibration
and pre-shipment testing of the profilers.

ii. Assist in set-up and trouble-shooting in geographical locations.
(6/88)

Dr. Griffith and Messers. Jennings and Mickey Smith (Brand R&D) traveled to
four field sites (Savannah, GA, Tucson, AZ, Buffalo, NY, and St.
Clairesville, OH) to install the computers and profilers. They returned to
the sites, with Dr. Reynolds, to perform final calibration of the flow
probes, install the final software for the profilers, and to observe and
assist in the start of the project in each city. Additional trips were
required during the course of the study to correct instrument malfunctions.

iii. Provide other assistance as needed and approved. (Ongoing)

A training session for 15 field operators was held at the Bellomy Research
facility in Winston-Salem. Dr. Reynolds conducted the course and produced
a training video for each site to use in training other site workers. An
additional 15 persons were trained at the field sites using the video tape
and a self-paced training manual was developed for the course.

@LGS 6eSTtsS

The study was conducted for six weeks. A total of 1,240 subjects each
smoked 10 products and completed product satisfaction, life-style and
psychometric questionnaires. After being returned to Bellomy Research, the
questionnaires were forwarded to Market Dynamics, Inc. for data entry and
analysis. Dr. Griffith received the puffing data, produced summary puffing
information for each of the 12,404 smokings (representing 168,547 puffs)