formaldehyde formation profiles at different heating rates achieved by setting the heater at
different temperatures. A formation profile is constructed by choosing a unique absorption band
for a particular compound and measuring its intensity change throughout the pyrolysis. The
absorbance of that band is then plotted over time. The areas under the profiles were integrated
and used as an indication of the amount of gas formed in the pyrolysis. The absorption band of
formaldehyde at 2780.9 cm”! resulting from the rotational structure of the C-H stretching was
used to construct the formation profiles of formaldehyde. Since the sample temperatures are
recorded al the same time, temperatures corresponding to ihe maximum formation rales al
different heating conditions can be determined. The temperature of maximum formation, the
amount of product formed, as well as the start and end of product formation are derived from the
formation profile. It is clearly scen that both the maximum temperature of formation and the
amount of formaldehyde formed are dependent on the sample-heating rate. As the heater
temperature increased from 450 °C to 800 °C, the heating rate and the amount of formaldchyde
increased. The Tax shifted to higher temperature when the heating rate is increased. A more in-
depth analysis of the data in the determination of a kinetic mechanism of cellulose pyrolysis is
presented elsewhere [32,33].

Carbon monoxide and carbonyl containing compounds (as monitored by the carbonyl
group frequency at 1760.0 cm’') increased with heating rate increases whereas CO: and H,O
formation decreased with heating rate. These different heating rate dependencies of different
compound formation are indicative of different mechanisms of formation. A more detailed
understanding of the formation mechanisms of these gascs may provide furthcr insight into
cellulose pyrolysis.

Pyrolysis cxperiments at 4200, 2100, 1050, and 525 ml/min were performed to
examine the flow rate effect on formaldchyde formation, The residence time of the vapor phase
in the heated zone was varied by either changing the flow rate or by placing the sample at
different positions in along the heater. At a flow rate of 2100 ml/min, the residence time of the
vapor phase in the heated zone was varied from 30 ms to 120 ms by placing the sample at about
1 inch from the exit or entrance of the heating zone, respectively, Slower flow or longer
residence times produced more formaldehyde. This observation is consistent with the nature of
formaldehyde formation from secondary reactions, as proposed in our kinetic model as well as in

cellulose pyrolysis literature for small organic molecule formations in general. Slower flow or

2078582270