longer residence lime in the heated zone would simply allow more intermediates or precursors to
decompose to form more formaldehyde.

Addition of different inorganic salts also significantly alters the formation of
formaldehyde as well as some other gas phase products of cellulose pyrolysis. The inorganic
salts act as either a tar promoter or char promoter, which directly affects the final pyrolysis
producis. Studies of Mame-retardant treatment of cellulose as well as the mechanism of their
effects on cellulose pyrolysis have been extensively reported in literature. A number of inorganic
salt additives have been examined in this study. When cellulose samples were treated with
FeCh, the formation of formaldchyde, CO, and CO, were increased, On the other hand, addition
of KHCO; into cellulose decreased formaldehyde formation, while increasing CO and CO). The
additive cffccts on cellulose pyrolysis are presented elsewhere [34], however, it can be said that
the addition of KHCO; increased the char yield while reducing the tar yield resulting in decreased
formaldehyde, When the cellulose sample was heated at 270 °C under a nitrogen environment
for 15 hours, then cooled down to room temperature and pyrolyzed as usual, formaldehyde yield
was found to be reduced by about 80%. This is most likely a result of that low temperature
heating of cellulose produces more char thereby decreasing the formation of tar, a precursor of

formaldehyde formation.

Pyrolysis of 1,6-Anhydro-B-D-glucopvranose In the initial degradation
of cellulose pyrolysis, tar is one of the primary products from cellulose decomposition of which
levoglucosan (1,6-Anhydro-B-D-glucopyranosc) is a major component. The Ievoglucosan
formation from cellulose pyrolysis was proposed by scission of the 1,4 glucosidic linkage in the
cellulose molecule, followed by intramolecular rearrangement of the monomer units. The purity
and physical properties of cellulose as well as the experimental condilions appear to have a
significant cffect on the yicld of levoglucosan formation. Shafizadch ct al. [5], in their vacuum
pyrolysis study of various cellulose samples, confirmed that levoglucosan can be obtained in
yields from 20 to 60% by weight. While vacuum pyrolysis of ccllulose results in rapid
distillation of levoglucosan, under normal pyrolysis conditions, levoglucosan will further
decompose to produce low molecular weight molecules and reduce the yield of levoglucosan. In
order to have a better understanding of the origins of the gas phase compounds, it was of interest
to compare the products from levoglucosan and cellulose pyrolysis. In this study, levoglucosan

was pyrolyzed with the two heating zone furnace, When the sccond heater was at room

2078582271