Experimental

Apparatus The schematic of the fast evolved gas analysis/FTIR (Fast
EGA/FTIR) technique developed in this study is shown in Figure 1. The apparatus consists of
three major components. An FTIR spectrometer (Bruker IFS 66/s, Bruker Optics, Billerica,
MA) equipped with a linear gas flow cell of 50 ml volume and 1.0 m path length (Axiom
Analytical Inc., Irvine, CA). A sampling device made of a quartz tube (7 mm id., 9 mm o.d.,
600 mm in length) that holds and retains the sample during pyrolysis, and a heating unit with
stationary and movable heaters and appropriate temperature control devices. The movable heater
is placed on a rail system and can be moved quickly and reproducibly to a desired position. The
flow rates of the nitrogen carrier gas was controlled by a MKS 1259B mass flow controller
(MKS Instruments, Inc., Burlington, MA) and measured with an Omega FMA 1818 mass
flowmeter (Omega Enginccring, Inc., Stamford, CT). Unless otherwise stated, the flow rate used
in this study was 2100 ml/min (35 ml/sec).

Sample Whatman No.41 filter paper (Whatman International Limited,
England), cut into rectangular stripes (about 2mm x 1 mm), was used without further treatment.
The paper is rolled and inserted into the quartz tube to form a single layer against the wall. This
single layer sample configuration is important in achieving fast and uniform heating. The
position of the sample in the heating block is the same for all experiments. Quartz wool is used
on both ends of the paper to hold the sample in position. Twenty milligrams of levoglucosan
(1,6-Anhydro-B-D-glucopyranosc) of 99.9% purity (ACROS ORGANICS, Fisher Scientific) was
used without further purification for cach pyrolysis run.

Sample heating The unique capability of the pyrolytic unit built in-house is the
rapid heating of relatively large sample (up to a few grams). This is achicved by using a
homemade block of stainless steel that is 38mm x 38mm x 135mm and equipped with four
symmetrically located cartridge heaters, The temperature of the heating block is measured by two
thermocouples. Two solid state relay temperature controllers regulate the heating. The quartz
tube that holds the sample is inserted through a hole of 10mm diameter located in the center of
the heating block. To achicve a homogenous heating of the sample, two spacers are embedded at
the ends of the center hole so that the sample portion of the quartz tube will be in the center of

the hole and not in contact with the heater body thereby eliminating conductive heating. This

2078582265