Changes in the temperature of the carrier gas and evolution volume of pyrolytic gases
can directly affect the flow through the tube furnace and consequently can affect the observed
kinetics. In order to assess the magnitude of such perturbations of flow, the rate was monitored
during the course of the pyrolysis process, No significant change in the flow rate was observed.

Second heating zone Another feature of the current fast EGA-FTIR technique
is the addition of a stationary heater placed downstream just before the gas flows into the IR cell
creating a second reaction zone. The effect of temperature on further reaction of primary
pyrolysis products was determined in this way. No condensation was observed between the two
heated zones, indicating that most primary pyrolysis products generated in the first heating zone
pass into the second heating zone. The temperature and residence time was precisely controlled
providing an cxpcrimental way to distinguish primary and secondary reactions. Quartz wool
packed at different densities in this zone changed the residence time of primary pyrolysis
products.

FTIR spectrometer In order to measure the formation profiles of gas
compounds in real time during a fast heating process, the FTIR spectrometer is required lo have a
fast scanning velocity, The Bruker IFS 66/s FTIR spectrometer is sect to repetitively collect 500
interferograms at a resolution of 1 wavenumber and sampling frequency of 200 kHz (i.e. 0.0805
second per scan, 40 scconds total for an experiment). At the present nitrogen flow rate of 2100
ml/minute and gas flow cell configuration of 50 ml volume and 1.0 m path length, the time
required to completely displace one cell volume is 1.43 second, or every 17.8 scans. Ideally, the
TR cell would have a minimum volume and a maximum path length. A narrow range liquid
nitrogen cooled mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector was used to cover the spectral range
of 3800-750 cm''. Calibration curves were obtained for several standard gas samples. The
interferograms are collected during the pyrolysis and post-processed to obtain the absorption
spectra and gas formation profiles. Two fresh Cambridge pads (15.9 mm in diameter) are placed
al the entrance of the gas flow cell in each analysis to filler out the particulate matter. The flow
cell is heated to 180 °C during the experiment to prevent condensation of gases on the KBr
windows and on the cell wall.

Procedures Both the stationary heater and movable heater are set at the
desired temperatures with the movable heater positioned on the rail away from the sample. It
should be pointed out that all the experimental results in our kinetic studies [32,33] was obtained

by using single healing zone with the secondary heating zone set al room temperature. The

2078582267