Results and Discussion

As described in the experimental section, the infrared spectra and the temperature
measurements are performed simultaneously. As the gaseous compounds are generated during
the heating process, they are continuously flushed through the infrared cell and measured every
80 milliseconds. Formaldehyde, CO, CO2, and hydroxyacetaldehyde monitored in this study
have shown to have linear absorption-concentration relationships, by choosing the appropriate
sample weight and flow rate. The gas evolution profile for cach molecule was constructed from
the infrared absorption and time or temperature. From the gas evolution profiles, information
such as the starting formation temperature, the completion temperature, the maximum formation
temperature, as well as the sequence of formation of products was obtained. Although the "true"
sample temperature is rather difficult to determine under the dynamic condition of a fast heating
rate, average valucs of scveral measurements was taken as representative of the temperature of
the sample. Table 1 summarizes the temperature data, including the initial and final
temperatures of the sample, the time constant of temperature risc, the maximum formation
temperature, and integrated areas of the evolution profiles which are directly related to the
amount of compounds formed at the different heating rates. Although for the purpose of this
study only three compounds, formaldehyde, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide were listed in
Table 1, more than ten compounds were monitored simultancously during the pyrolysis of
cellulose. In this table, differences in compounds generated at different temperatures indicale
different precursors and reaction routes, and different heating rate dependencies. Formaldehyde
and carbon monoxide formation were observed to have a strong heating rate dependence,
forming more at higher heating rate, whereas carbon dioxide formation had little change upon the
heating rate. The carbon dioxide maximum formation temperatures are also lower than that of
formaldehyde and carbon monoxide, as indicated in Table 1. Further information on reaction

kinctics and mechanism can be derived from the data listed in Table 1, and will be discussed in

separate paper [32, 33]. The following sections illustrate some of the results obtained for
cellulose pyrolysis.
Formaldehyde formation The absorbance of formaldchyde was determined at

different heating rates to cxamine their cffect in cellulose pyrolysis. Figure 3 shows the

2078582269