proves to be important in achieving good reproducibility. The large thermal capacity of the block
results in the capability of heating samples of a few grams without diminishing the heating rate.

At the beginning of an experiment, the sample is set at room temperature. Both the
stationary heater and the movable healer are set at the desired temperatures. Then the movable
heater block is moved within approximately 0.2 second to the sample position. This means that
heat transfer to the sample occurs immediately. Ata fixed gas flow rate and with the same
sample type, the heating rate of sample is a result of the temperature difference between the
heater and the sample, and the distance between the heater wall and the sample.

Sample temperature measurement The sample temperature is measured by
two small thermocouples (0.01", type K, response time 2-4 ms, Omega Engineering, Inc.,
Stamford, CT) placed inside and outside the sample and in contact with the surface of the
Whatman filter paper. Average temperatures of samples were determined from the outside and
inside surface temperatures. Calculations with tempcratures measured at the inside and outside
surface of the samples show a difference of about 10% on activation cnergy, which is not
significant considering other possible sources of errors.

The temperature-time profiles arc recorded by a data acquisition system consisting of
a Data Translation board using LABTECH Notebook software (Laboratory Technologies
Corporation). The sampling frequency is sct to match the infrared spectrometer scanning
frequency, 12.42 Hz or one temperature measurement every 80.5 millisecond in the current
experiment. Figure 2 displays the temperature profiles at different heating rates (heater
temperatures). The measured temperature profiles of the samples can be described by an
exponential equation:

T(t) =7, +(Z, -% Xl -exp(-+/7)) (2)
where the subscripts 0 and © refer to the initial and final temperatures and 7 is the time constant
for the temperature rise. Table 1 lists, among other parameters, To, T.., and t derived from the
temperature profiles [rom cellulose pyrolysis.

When quartz wool was used inside the tube furnace, temperature was delermined by
three thermocouples placed at different positions across the sample. The temperature profiles
obtained were reproducible with a temperature gradient of less than 30°C across the sample and
the heater sct at 800°C (the fastest heating rate in this study), Smaller temperature gradients were

observed when slower heating rates or lower heater temperatures were used.

2078582266