Introduction

Cellulose pyrolysis involves a complicated set of chemical reactions that are
influenced by many parameters. A large number of publications have been reported describing
investigations of the overall reaction kinetics, pyrolytic decomposition pathways, and the nature
and amounts of products formed [1-31]. The generally accepted mechanism for cellulose
pyrolysis, based on a series of experiments by Arseneau [6], Broido [7-9], and Shafizadeh [2,3],
involves an initiation reaction associated with a dramatic reduction in the degree of
polymerization of the cellulose, followed by two competing reactions. At lower temperatures
(below 300°C), anhydroccllulose is produced by intramolecular water climination, whereas at the
higher temperatures (above 300°C), a rapid depolymerization or “unzipping” results in the
formation of levoglucosan. The anhydroccllulose and levoglucosan further decompose to form
char, permanent gases, and other volatiles during the secondary reactions. Kinctic analyses of the
overall reactions have been carricd out by a number of techniques, including thermogravimetric
analysis (TGA), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), pyrolysis-gas chromatography (Py-GC),
pyrolysis-GC/MS, and evolved gas measurement (EGA), Most of the information reported in the
literature is concerned with the global kinctics, weight loss, or heat of reaction of the overall
cellulose pyrolysis process. The chemical reactions, particularly the secondary reactions, are less
frequently reported because of the demands placed upon the analytical techniques to discriminate
between individual compounds in a constantly changing complex matrix. The fact that many of
the cellulose pyrolysis studics use a rather slow heating rate (less than 1 °C/second) also limits
the study of formation products that occur at higher heating rates or temperatures.

To better understand the nature of cellulose pyrolysis under fast heating conditions, a
fast heating/Mowing, two-reaction zone pyrolysis system was coupled to a rapid scanning Fourier
transform infrared spectrometer (Fast EGA/FTIR) in this study. By carcfully controlling the
pyrolytic conditions of the two-reaction zone tube furnace, specific products of the primary and
secondary reactions of cellulose pyrolysis were identified. Advantages of this two reaction zone
Fast EGA/FTIR include 1) real time measurement as the gases are formed during evolution; 2)
simullancous observation and identification of multiple gascous compounds; 3) separation of
primary and secondary reactions through the use of two reaction zones; and 4) relatively high

flow rates that reduce the residence time minimizing further reactions. Application of high flow

2078582263