CO and CO; formation: post-pvrolysis heating effect CO and CO, are both
observed as the cellulose pyrolysis products. While they can be formed from either primary or
secondary reaction, there are additional formation routes during the pyrolysis process where CO
and CO, can be produced. Formaldehyde, a secondary product from the decomposition of tar
(levoglucosan), can thermally decompose further to produce H2 and CO at around 550°C.
Several experiments were performed using the same heating rate in the primary pyrolysis zone
while applying a different heating rate al the second heating zone. The use ofa secondary heater
provided a heated zone for secondary reactions to continuc after the primary reaction products
leave the first pyrolysis zone. Figure 5 shows the CO and CO, formation at different secondary
heater temperatures (the primary heater temperature was fixed at 800 °C). The rotational
structure at 2055.3 cm! of CO vibration and the band at 2251.6 cm? of the v3 mode of CO,
vibration were used to monitor the formation of the two gases. At the second heater with
temperatures lower than 500 °C, CO and CO» were rarely affected by the secondary-heating
zone. When the second heater was set at temperatures higher than 500 °C, CO formation from
cellulose pyrolysis was found to be highly dependent on the temperature set at the second zone,
while CO) yields were only slightly affected by the additional heating, The dependence of CO
formation on temperature is well known in literature, and yield of CO does correlate to the
pyrolysis temperature. The post-pyrolysis heating effect on CO formation is of interest since it
provides additional information on the formation sources of CO, Although it is difficult to
completely distinguish the primary reaction products from that of secondary reactions, the two
heating zone experiment as performed docs indicate that a large portion of CO is formed by the
secondary reactions, i.e. the decomposition of the volatile products. Most COs is produced in
the primary reaction or carly stage of ccllulose pyrolysis under the fast heating condition, CO
and CO, also have different maximum formation temperatures as scen in Table 1, with Tyax
slightly lower for COz. Again this may result from CO and CO, forming from different
precursors and at different stages during the pyrolysis. Further correlation of CO and CO: with
other gases might reveal more insights into the formation and decomposition of cellulose

pyrolysis products,

2078582273