temperature, 25°C, only a small amount of formaldehyde, CO, CO2, water, and some carbonyl
compounds were formed because levoglucosan is known to be easily volatized. Vacuum
pyrolysis, which facilitates the remove of reaction products, has resulted in a recovery of rather
large portion of intact levoglucosan. When the second heater was set at 800 °C, however, gas
phase products were significantly increased. Formaldehyde yield was increased by a factor of
more than ten, This indicates that gas phase levoglucosan further decomposed in the second
heater at the higher temperature. The pyrolysis products from cellulose and levoglucosan under
the same experimental conditions are compared in Figure 4. Here the cellulose and levoglucosan
were heated up to 800 °C by the first heater, and then passed through the second heater also set at
800 °C. Indeed, very similar infrared spectra and gas phase products were found in these two
experiments. The spectral regions of 3200-2700 cm™, where methane, formaldehyde, and
acetaldehyde absorb, are almost identical in both levoglucosan and cellulose pyrolysis. The CO,
and CO regions (2400-2000 em’) are also very similar in both cascs. The similaritics between
pyrolysis of cellulose and levoglucosan support our proposed formation mechanism on
formaldchyde formation, An important difference between Ievoglucosan and cellulose pyrolysis
is that levoglucosan did not produce hydroxyacctaldchyde, but cellulose did as determined from
the hydrox yacetaldehyde absorption at 860.4 cm” in the gas phase IR spectra.

Shafizadch had proposed a reaction scheme to explain the origin of
hydrox yacelaldehyde [1]. In his mechanism, levoglucosan was first produced in the pyrolysis,
which yiclds glucose and then undergoes C2-C; scission to form hydroxyacctaldchyde and a
tetrose that then degrades further: cellulose > levoglucosan > glucose > hydroxyacetaldehyde
+ tetrose. Piskorz et al. [19] have used the similar reaction mechanism to explain the formation
of hydroxyacctaldchyde in their studics of rapid pyrolysis of cellulose. Richards [23], in a study
of vacuum pyrolysis of cellulose at 350 °C, argues that this mechanism is very unlikely based on
the fact that conditions which increase levoglucosan yield cause a dramatic decrease in
hydrox yacetaldehyde yield. Richards has proposed that the hydrox yacetaldehyde formation must
involve diversion of reaction channels prior to the formation of levoglucosan. In our experiments
on pyrolysis of levoglucosan, no hydroxyacetaldehyde was observed as the product, indicating
that levoglucosan is not a good candidate as the major precursor of hydroxyacctaldchyde in

cellulose pyrolysis.

2078582272