ae.

March 16, 1967

Donald Je Kasaare, MAD,

Chief, Pulmonary Disease Research Laboratory
Vv. A, Hospital

50 Irvine Street HY,

Vagshing , pC, 2ohee

Dear Doctor Masgarol

Upon the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory Board to
the Council for Tobacco Research, eo financial grant has been approved in
the amount of $7,029.00, in accomance with the application filed by you

under date of October ?7, 1966.

It ic urderstood that this grant fe eade subject to nocept-
ance by the appropriate iretitutional authorities.

The Board hag taken into account your estimate thet the project
will extend through two years, and it 4e anticipated that, following 4 me-
view of progress in the first year and the receipt of ar epplication for
renewal, prior congideration will be given to your needs in the allocation
of funds in the succeeding yoar,

Ploase refer to the Etatenent of Policy containing the condi-
tions anid terme under which the above-nentioned grant is to be administered,
which you recetved with your application blanks,

In preparing semianmal progrese reports we will appreciate it
if you will use the format show: o the enclosed sample and furnish us with
15 copies, We would also Mike to be advised of any published papcre result-
ing fron thie grant, When reprints are available we would appreciate 25
copics.

The Council For Tobacco Research will make an announcenent of
this eward in the Annual Report of the Scientific Director ard in pross ree
leases according to astablished practice.

. Any questions of a eclentific nature that may arise concerning

the project should be referred to Dr. Robert C, Hockett, Associate Scientific
Director, and we will appreciate your keeping him informed of progrese at
intervals,

After discussing the approval of the project with the proper
officere of your inatitutlon, will you please notify ua of your acceptance
of this grant under the stated terms and indicate the date upon which it
will be come active.

Sincerely yours,

Wt stin 1 W. fT. Hoyt
enclosure kxecutive Director