There was not an ‘estimate on attendance given, -
*- although Chris Pook indicated attendance was up
at a very good level from 1988. . Bad weather.

perhaps: held: down ‘the attendance some... ‘I was

 

Attendance --

 

‘come that they’ did not make the trip down: ~—
because it. was raining very hard in Los Angeles
‘and rained all day. in that area. eS

   

Electronic Media - ESPN broadcast a tape delayed version of
. Oo the event... |

 

Race Results - The Jaguar. driven by Jan Lammers
was a winner. Geoff Brabham won the
championship. It was the second year ina
row Jaguar. captured the big CAMEL Pyramid

payoff at the year ending race.

Sponsor Activity - Even though Nissan came on board as the
presenting sponsor. for this race, they
didn’t: seem to be as over-powering as
they have been at some races where they
are not even a participating sponsor.
There did not seem to be sponsor clutter
a as badly.as‘it has been in some places
this year.

SUMMARY

After three years, there were quite a few rough spots in
this race and the surrounding promotions. We need to get
involved more closely in a hands-on fashion with some of the
surrounding promotions to insure (1) That they come off in
a professional manner, and (2) To insure that CAMEL gets its
proper exposure. Specifically, the Pit Crew Contest in
downtown San Diego appears to have a lot of potential and
just needs to be massaged a little bit. Also, the Celebrity
Golf Tournament, which was canceled this year due to lack of
support from the sponsoring charities group can also be a
very big item in the week’s activities. This just needs to
be handled more closely by the SME personnel, rather than
leaving it to someone else.

We need to address parking earlier in the event and just
insure that we have the parking places we need assigned, and
this is just a case of we need to go to Mr. Pook and say
this is what we want and write it down, and I don’t
anticipate any problem with that. Carol Russell helping in
the suite seemed to give us a little more stability and a
little more control over what we are doing, and I think in
1990 with her working on a more regular basis, we’ll be able
to develop a routine that will help us more effectively help
Sales entertain their guests.

"told by some: people: in Los Angeles who did not’):

T6Sb OFZOS

     

 

 

eet