’ benrelsiorf 29-2

Does 80 ruch cuscrr consunption have 41) effects! Sore neieatists tla © our greatly
4ncreased sucar consurption for overweicht an‘ for heart disease (this revaina controvcr

Fo avoid tiese co:plications of consw itr s0 teh surar, scientistr have been
develoning avathe‘ic cl.e-deals that are rot swears endl yet Lave a sueet teste. ined” ve
really 4o not unverstan’ the @etails of why sore ct.enicais taste sweet anc others éo not
all of these svweet-tisting c.eiicals Lave teen discovere:) by accidents saccherin in 187:
and eyelanate in 163%. Found for pourd, sece.crin 4s clout 359 tines es sxect as tahle
surar, Wile cyelr..cte is atout 29 tires an etecte

There 4a no evicence thet eaccharin or cyclanate in the clet help to retucs
tody veirht. Cn t.c other head, they roy drers-se boty veirits for by usin tier. the
bloot murcr level -oes coun ant this stirvletes the spretite. Fonisiek sovs,"Cycharste,
mixes into the edict of lcboritory rats, wos found to ineresse tieir inteke of food, ler
to ca imexerse dn loly wedplte”

Tott ceed tytn rut evetecte eort>in ritroren end swrur ators. She presesee ¢F

pte-s @ry rive rine to toxic cubstinecs in the tolye deus, in Getyber ao, avelincnte

_. Ae: .
totcliy vo tamne*? Pron use 4n foo’s an® erin’s 7s ae cx substituted. And ro, scecor::

i fs pay te tomn ad. ( nexe ts auervestive evivesce Vat lrr-e rt ste of eltder sicelene4r
ney ororuce enneers in interstory aninclis,

St voula ie rice af ve be eseat-tnstine super ev>stitutes thet tri re sulfur o7
missin atone “ere orm suc. reterials. Ter. Potert 1. Lorovite and Pro Centini of
the Tralt avi Veevtetlie Chenisty Loterctory, Pyoetr. te OF Apriqulture, Ps" teas, mryig
heve eon there ire ct lerst tree Alffersnt steet-testine sus stonees one cen evttn
ty trowttys naturel wetortsts folate! fro: (oe vite geoer use 3 uncer tee outer Tin’.

§
off vel eitms frsits os orcs, lecons soul provetrilite

ane visit to the Picstens Liborrtorys Ltsstid the three seeteniar zoonts. Cu
rest rcen O44 .
of the yg klik the treinie.d fon-ueetrdating i.e Of \wrsurerrr 7 dbkrerce’ P2068 Vee
é

. . os . -
fn chose PTD goss ea grew ra toe cece jan crenteons if ion to caer, Sat eons

oad ae so reas . ‘ oo . oS . . sy et te we
deste 44, Cd oo cttorns entre, Ag tlh: oe % een or wc vey tor ete ee

+
<"
7
’
.