x

9/23/91 CC:DRS. FELDMAN, PIERCE ,McALLISTER,CTR STAEF .
Grant Application No. 2384A Bi Amason, reviewer, Page 1

Interferons and 2-5A Expression in Alzheimer’s Disease Fibroblasts . Joseph M. Wu, Phd

INVESTIGATOR. Dr. Wu is 44. He did his undergraduate work at McGill, his PhD in
biological sciences at Florida State University, graduating in 1975 following which he did
a postdoc in Biochemistry at Temple. He has been at New York Medical College since
1978 and a professor in the department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology since 1987.
He reports 72 published papers and lists 9 publications relevant to the proposed work.
Also included is a C.V. for Shao-jian An, a research associate from China who has been
with Dr. Wu for the past 2 years. He had worked on 2-5A synthetase while still at the
Institute of Microbiology in Beijing and has cantinued this work at NY Medical College.

BUDGET, This is a renewal application. Current funding is $80,000 per year and the same
amount is requested for the continuation. Dr. Wu will devote 15% effort to this project
and requests $15,441 towards his salary. Shao-jian An Is listed for 100% effort and 50%
salary recovery is requested for a technician who will maintain the cultured cells and
perform routine biochemical procedures. $12,500 is requested for supplies which would
appear to be an underestimate of needs, and $4000 for other expenses.

PROPOSAL. In the prior granting period the P.I. has explored differences between control
and familial Alzheimer’s disease (AD) fibroblasts with regard to premature senescence and
has made the intriguing observation that Type I interferon (IFN)-induced 2-5A synthetase
activity is aberrant in familial AD. The enzyme exists in 2 lower mw forms of 40 and 46
kD derived from the same gene by alternative splicing and a 100 kD form probably derived
from a different gene. The enzyme acting through 2-5A converts later RNAase L to its
active form which then degrades viral and cellular RNA. 2-5A synthetase is believed to be
of critical importance in body defense against picornaviruses. In 5 familial AD case
fibroblast lines IFN fails to induce the 40 kD 2-5A synthetase and the mRNA is not made
suggesting either an aberrancy in synthetase gene promoter or other 5’ exon sequences in
familial AD. He has evidence that the 2-5A synthetase gene is hypomethylated in AD cells
suggesting an altered DNA structure for certain genes in AD because of an altered
methylation state which predisposes to changed genetic transcription and/or processing.
The problem does not reside at the level of IFN binding which has been shown to be
normal for a. 8, and y-IFN in AD cells. Synthetase in AD cells has an acidic pH optimum
whereas in contro! cells activity is maximal at alkaline pH. Presumably this reflects
preferential expression of the 46 kD form in AD, the absence of the 40 kD form and a
reduced expression of the 100 kD form. Surprisingly, at least to this reviewer, RNAase L
activity is reported as increased in AD cells. Based on studies taking advantage of
hyperthermia which regulates synthetase mRNA levels by stabilizing mRNA and of phorbol
esters which augment IFN-induced synthetase induction of synthetase the P.I. has satisfied
himself that a post-transcriptional mechanism is not implicated in the altered expression
of synthetase mRNA in AD. Rather he favors differential processing at the 3’ end of the
primary transcript which depends on availability of a proximal or a distal polyadenylation
site, An alternative would be a different promoter. Based on these data the P.I.
hypothesizes that AD is characterized by an altered DNA methylation state and plans to test
the effects of methylation modulators such as 5-azacytidine and ethionine on control and
AD cells to determine whether control cells can be made to mimic the AD state. He also
proposes to characterize proteins that bind to DNA containing CpGg. in control and AD cells
in the presence or absence of IFN. Finally he will measure DNA methy] transferase if time
permits.

}

eod ADOTOUNAN-OOVSATIHD MH * WAOvVI eT 1G "£2 ‘Go

 

CTR-CONFIDENTIAL SUBJECT TO P.O. INUS v. PM ETAL. 99CV2496 (SCIENTIFIC PEER-REVIEW MATERIAL)