Lorillard

MEMORANDUM
TO: ALL EMPLOYEES!
FROM: A.W. Spears
DATE: July 23, 1998
RE: Significant Legal Developments

Tam writing to inform you of two significant developments which I believe could impact
favorably upon the company’s position in ongoing litigation concerning tobacco and health.

On July 16, the Appellate Division of the New York State Supreme Court reversed a
class certification order entered by a trial judge, and ordered that plaintiffs’ claims be dismissed
in their entirety. The trial judge had certified a class consisting of New York residents who
purchased and smoked cigarettes since 1980, The Appeals Court ruling emphatically rejected
the certification order on the grounds that individual issues of proof would predominate the
proceedings and that the class would be unmanageable. The Court pointed out that because the
tobacco companies have a Constitutional right to cross-examine each class member, the trial
“would take hundreds of years.”

This ruling is significant in that it represents the first time that a state appellate court has
rejected class certification on these grounds and followed the logic of similar favorable rulings
by federal court judges throughout the country. We are hopeful that other state judges will be
guided by this influential court and adopt its clear and reasoned approach to class actions
pending in various state courts.

In another meaningful decision, a federal judge here in Greensboro, Judge William
Osteen, ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency’s classification of environmental
tobacco smoke (ETS) as a “Group A carcinogen” was wrong as a matter of law and fact. Judge
Osteen found that the EPA did not follow the well-founded rules of procedure it was required to
and improperly adjusted established scientific procedures to validate the agency’s predetermined
conclusions. The Judge made it clear that had EPA followed such rules, it might have reached a
different conclusion.

This opinion is important in that it validates our long-held view that ETS has not been
scientifically proven to cause cancer or other diseases in non-smokers. We also believe that this
decision will make it more difficult for states and localities to justify draconian smoking
restrictions in public places like restaurants and bars.

We are encouraged that these courts have applied the law in a fair and even-handed
manner in the. face of unprecedented assaults on our business. I will continue to keep you
apprised of other such developments.

2L67S918