Copyright & 1995 by the Cenetics Society of America

The fog-3 Gene and Regulation of Cell Fate in the Germ Line
of Caenorhabditis elegans

Ronald E. Ellis and Judith Kimble

Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Laboratory of Molecular Biology, and Departments of Biochemistry and Medical Genetics,
University of Wisconsin at Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 33706

Manuscript received September 8, 1994
Accepted for publication October 1, 1994

ABSTRACT

In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, germ celis normally adopt one of three fates: mitosis, spermato-
genesis or oogenesis. We have identified and characterized the gene fog-3, which is required for germ
cells to differentiate as sperm rather than as oocytes. Analvsis of double mutants suggests that fog-3 is
absolutely required for spermatogenesis and acts at the end of the regulatory hicrarchy controlling sex
determination for the germ line. By contrast, mutations in fog-3 do not alter the sexual identity of other
tissues. We also have characterized the null phenotype of fog-/, another gene required for spermatogene-
sis; we demonstrate that it too controls the sexual identity of germ cells but not of other tissues. Finally,
we have studied the interaction of these two fog genes with gld-J, a gene required for germ cells to
undergo oogenesis rather than mitosis. On the basis of these results, we propose that germ-cell fate
might be controlled by a set of inhibitory interactions among genes that specily one of three fates:

 

mitosis, spermatogenesis or oogenesis. Such a regulatory network would link the

cell fate to the suppression of the other two.

URING animal development, the establishment of
sexual identity is crucial for the proper regulation
of many cell fates. In the nematode C. elegans, for exam-
ple, the copulatory organs, their underlying muscula-
ture, the neurons that control these muscles, the so-
matic gonad and the germ tissue all differ markedly
between the two sexes. These differences are controlled
by a common signal, the ratio of X chromosomes to
autosomes (Mapt and Herman 1979). Animals with
two X chromosomes and two sets of autosomes develop
as hermaphrodites, whereas animals with one X chro-
mosome develop as males. This X-A signal is interpre-
ted by a set of regulatory genes that establish the sexual
identity of the animal (reviewed by HopGxin 1990;
VILLENEUVE anc MevER 1990; KuwaBARA and KIMBLE
1992). We are interested in how the genes that control
sexual idenury specify individual cell fates. To study this
process, we are analyzing the development of the germ
line,

Several factors make the germ line of C. elegans attrac-
tive for studying the regulation of cell fate. First, germ
cells adopt two terminal fates, each of which can be
identified easily: in males they differentiate to form
sperm, whereas in hermaphrodlites the first germ cells
to differentiate form sperm, but later ones develop as
oocytes (HIRSH ef al. 1976), Second, the germ line is
the only tissue in the nematode for which new cells are

 

 

Corresponding au udith Kimble, Laboratory of Molecular Biol-
ogy, 1524 Linden Dove, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706.
E-mail: jumble@macc wise.edu

 

 

 

Genetics 139 561-577) Februam. 1995)

 

idopuion of oue germ-

generated by mitosis as older cells are used up. This
pattern differs from the reproducible set of cell disi-
sions that create the soma of C. elegans (SULSTON and
Horvrrz 1977; Ristair and HirsH 1979; SULSTON ef al.
1983), but resembles the homeostatic regulation of tis-
sue size in higher organisms. Thus, in the germ line.
one can analyze how the control of proliferation inter-
acts with the regulation of cell fate. Third, powerful
genetic methads have been developed for the idenufi-
cation of genes that reguiate the sexual identity of gerra
cells (¢.g., BARTON ef af 1987; BARTON and KIMBLE
1990).

In this paper, we report the identification and charac-
terization of the fog-3 gene, which is required to specifK
that germ cells differentiate as sperm rather than as
aocytes. Because this gene does not control the sexuai
fate of somatic lissiies, we have adopted the name fog.
which indicates zation of the germ line.” Muta-
tions in a second gene, jog], show an identical pheno
type (BARTON and KimpLE 1990). We demonstrate that
some of these fog-] mutations inactivate fag-1, indicating
that it, like fag-3, 1

 

 
 

 

   

“yen

gulates the sexual idenuty of ge
cells, but not of other lissues. Finally, studies of epistasis
indicate that both jug-d and fag-3 act in response to the
genes of the sex-detcrmination pathway. We propose
that fog] and fog-3 respond to this information abou:
sexual identity so as to control the fates of specific cells.
those of the germ line.

 

In ©. elegans, bvo genes ure known that regulate
whether germ cells proliferate or undergo meiosis: gif-
? (AUSTIN and Riise L987; Prigss et af. 1987) and efd-