ma tet tt het hitches

i
i
i
i

 

3732 EM. LEE et al.

vivo genomic instability has not been determined.
Moreover, while p53-deficient mice are susceptible to
chemically-induced carcinogenesis (Harvey et al., 1993b,

_ Kemp ef al., 1993) , it is not known whether p53 loss

effects susceptibility to radiation-carcinogenesis. Here, we
report that transgenic mice which express of mutant p53
alleles have an increased susceptibility to radiation-induced
tumour formation. Moreover, these transgenic mice, as
well as mice homozygous for p53 null mutations, exhibit
an increased susceptibility to radiation-induced DNA
damage accumulation.

Results

Susceptibility.to radiation-induced tumour formation in
po3 transgenic mice.

We have previously shown that expression of a mutant p53
protein is associated with increased resistance to ionizing
radiation (Lee and Bernstein, 1993). Ionizing radiation is a
potent carcinogen, and we were interested in determining
whether the radio-resistant phenotype in our p53 transgenic
animals was associated with alterations in their
susceptibility to radiation-induced tumour formation. We
therefore subjected p53 transgenic animals (n=26) and
their wild type littermates (n=28) to two whole body doses

- of 300 rad each, over 4 days, and monitored these

irradiated animals for the presence of macroscopic
tumours. The overall spontaneous tumour penetrance in
p53 transgenic mice is approximately 40%, and most
tumours occur in animals older than one year (Lavigeur et
al., 1989). As shown in Figure 1, the irradiated transgenic
mice (both p53pro193 and p53vall35 ) rapidly developed
tumours following completion of the radiation regimen,

whereas none of irradiated wild-type littermates showed |

evidence of macroscopic tumours. Ten weeks following
completion of the radiation treatment, at which point the
experiment was terminated, over one third (10/26) of the
irradiated transgenic animals had developed tumours.
During this time period, only a single tumour had appeared
in a total of 34 age matched and unirradiated transgenic
control animals. These observations suggest that
expression of a mutant p53 transgene results in an
increased predisposition to  radiation-induced
carcinogenesis over and above the already increased
susceptibility to malignancy in these animals.

fraction tumor free mice

9.56

weeks
Figure f
Fraction of tumour-free mice versis time following completion of two
doses of whole body y-radiation of 300 rad each. Irradiated p53 transgenic
mice (both p53°44!35 and p53P'0193. ( @ ) and irradiated wild-typé mice
(@ ) and un-irradiated age-matched p53 transgenic animals (O)

 

Spectrum of radiation-induced tumours in the p53 —
transgenic animals.

We liavé previously shown that the p53 transgenic mice
develop spontaneous tumours at high frequency (Lavigeur
et al., 1989). Occasional tumours are initially seen as early
as 4-6 months of age but the great majority of spontaneous
tumours occur between 12-18 months of age. The earliest
tumours are lymphomas and osteosarcomas, while lung
adenocarcinomas predominate in the older animals.
Overall , lung adenocarcinomas, lymphomas and...
osteosarcomas constitute 33%, 18% and 13% of the
spontaneous tumours, respectively, while the remaining
tumours were assorted carcinomas and sarcomas.
Interestingly, there were significant differences in the’
spectrum of tumours observed in the irradiated p53
transgenic mice. As shown in Table 1, half (5/10) of the
tadiation-induced tumours in these mice were sarcomas,
rather than the lung, and bone tumours which
spontaneously appear in these animals. Two lymphomas
(2/10) were also observed, which is similar to the
spontaneous tumour frequency (18%).

Table 1 Summary of radiation-induced tumours
in p53 transgenic mice.

 

Tumour Type Number

 

sarcoma
lymphoma
_ carcinoma
hemangioma
undifferentiated

tom ee he

 

Increased accumulation of double stranded DNA damage
in p53 deficient mice.

Ionizing radiation functions as a carcinogen, presumably
because of its ability to cause DNA damage. Loss of p53
function leads to an increased frequency of gene
amplification and aneuploidy during in vitro fibroblasts
culture (Livingstone et al., 1992; Yin et al., 1992; Harvey
et al., 1993). We were interested, therefore, in determining
whether the susceptibility to radiation-carcinogenesis in the
p53 transgenic animals was associated with an increased in
vive susceptibility to radiation-induced DNA damage. We-
measured the levels of radiation-induced DNA damage in
mice which either express a mutant p53 allele or which
carry null alleles of the p53 gene. DNA damage was
assessed by measuring the accumulation of peripheral red
blood cells (RBC) with micro-nuclei (MNC) in mice |
following whole-body irradiation. Micro-nuclei are small
secondary nuclei which result from the membrane
encapsulation of extra-nuclear chromosomal fragments
created by double-stranded DNA breakage (Heddle, 1973;
Schmid, 1975). These micronuclei, so-called because they
are much smaller than normal nuclei, reflect the extent of
spontaneous and induced double stranded DNA breakage
(Heddle, 1973; Schmid, 1975;Tometsko ef al., 1992) and
therefore are one measure of the in vivo accumulation of
DNA damage. The number of MNCs in peripheral blood
reflects the level of chromosomal breakage occurring in
erythroid progenitor cells.

To measure the number of MNCs generated after
irradiation, wild type, p53 transgenic and p53 -/- mice were
subjected to two whole-body doses of 300 rad of

PUBLICATIONS 045103