wee Weatay bedede EL ibe

Discussion

In this study, we have shown that p53-deficient mice,
expressing a mutant p53 allele, are more susceptible to
radiation-oncogenesis than their wild-type littermates. In
addition, we have shown that these mice, as well as mice
homozygous for p53 null mutations exhibit an increase in
radiation-induced chromosomal breakage compared to
wild type animals. These experiments study further
support the notion that p53 plays a central role in the
cellular response to radiation, and suggests that loss of p53
function affects the accumulation of DNA damage,
concomitant with an increased susceptibility to radiation-

_ induced neoplasia.

Haematopoietic cells from p53 deficient mice, expressing
either a mutant p53 transgene or with targeted p53 null
alleles, exhibit increased cellular resistance to -y-radiation
(Lee and Bernstein, 1993; Lotem and Sachs, 1993). This
radio-resistant phenotype was unexpected for several
reasons. Firstly, p53 is an important part of the cellular
radiation-responsé (Lee ef al., 1994) and deficiencies in the
cellular response to radiation in diseases such as
Aeroderma Pigmentosum (XP) and Ataxia Telangiectasia
(AT) generally lead to increased sensitivity to radiation
exposure (Friedberg ef al., 1973).

Secondly, wild-type p53 functions as a G1/S radiation
cell-cycle checkpoint. In this respect, p53 has a function
analogous to the Saccharomyces cervisiae gene RAD9,
which causes a radiation-induced halt in the cell cycle at
the G2/M boundary (Hartwell and Weinert, 1989; Weinert
and Hartwell, 1990). The cell cycle arrest mediated by
RAD9 allows time for the repair of radiation-induced DNA

‘damage, and a similar function has been postulated for the

p33 GI/S cell cycle arrest. Cells with mutant RAD9
alleles are several orders of magnitude more sensitive to
killing by ionizing radiation than their wild-type
counterparts (Weinert and Hartwell, 1990), presumably
because of a decrease in DNA repair efficiency in the
absence of RAD9. Thus, p53 mutations, Hke the loss of
RAD9, might be predicted to result in radio-sensitivity.
However, we have shown that deficiencies in p53 function
lead to an increased resistance, not sensitivity, to y-
radiation (Lee and Bernstein, 1993). Moreover, wild-type
p53 expression prevents spontaneous gene amplification
and aneuploidy during in vitro fibroblast culture

' (Livingstone et al., 1992; Yin er al., 1992; Harvey ef al.,

1993). Therefore, loss of p53 function might be expected
to result in radio-sensitivity because of an expected
increase in the frequency of radiation-induced DNA
lesions. The cellular radio-resistance in mice deficient in
p53 function therefore represents a unique opportunity to
understand the cellular response to radiation.

Radiation can cause a spectrum of DNA damage,
including point mutations, deletions and both single-and
double stranded DNA breaks (Hutchinson, 1993).
Resistance to radiation often correlates with an increased
level of DNA repair, and thus the radio-resistant phenotype
associated with the loss of p53 function may result from an
increased level of DNA repair. If DNA repair is increased
in p53 mutant mice, then y-radiation should induce fewer
measurable DNA lesions in cells from p53 deficient mice
than from their wild-type counterparts. In this report, we
show that the opposite was true: mice which expressed a
mutant p53 transgene or had a homozygous p53 deletion
accumulated more radiation-induced chromosomal
breakage than their wild-type littermates, as measured by
the accumulation of MNC in peripheral blood. These

observations suggest that the radio-resistatit phenotype in
p53 deficient mice is not the result of increased levels of
DNA repair. Rather, it seems more likely that DNA repair
levels have remained constant. The increased accumulation
of radiation-induced chromosomal breakage is consistent
with the idea that the normal function of wild-type p53 is —
to prevent the proliferation and accumulation of cells with
DNA damage. It is noteworthy, however, that the
spontaneous frequency of double-strand breaks in
unirradiated p53 deficient mice was similar to that of their
wild-type littermates. Only following irradiation did we
observe significant differences in the levels of
chromosomal breakage between the p53 deficient mice
and their wild-type littermates.

An alternate explanation for the cellular radio-resistance
in p53 deficient mice is that the radio-resistant phenotype
results from a defect in the ability of cells from these mice
to enter into a radiation-induced pathway of apoptosis.
This idea is consistent with the observation that, while

. normal immature mouse thymocytes enter into apoptosis

following exposure to y-radiation, thymocytes from p53
deficient mice do not (Lowe et ai.,.1993; Clarke ef ai.,
1993). Radiation-apoptosis may be dependent on DNA
damage induction, and recent evidence has suggested that
the initiating event in the induction of p53-mediated events
in the cellular response to ionizing radiation is the double
stranded cleavage of DNA (Nelson and Kastan, 1994).
Radiation-apoptosis could therefore act as a mechanism to
prevent the survival and proliferation of cells which have
sustained double stranded chromosomal breaks. Implicit
in this idea is the notion that the DNA damage which
initiates radiation-apoptosis is not lethal per se, but only
mutagenic. Thus, p53 mediated radiation-apoptosis could
be an important mechanism for eliminating cells that have

- sustained mutations, thereby suppressing the mutagenic

and carcinogenic properties of ionizing radiation.

The inability to enter into apoptosis following DNA
damage may also have important clinical ramifications.
The activation of an apoptotic pathway is one mechanism
by which cancer chemotherapeutic agents appear to act
(Lowe et al., 1993b). Therefore, the frequent loss of p53
function in humans and a concomitant increase in
resistance to y-radiation, may be an important and common
mechanism by which tumour cells become refractory to
cancer therapy. Consistent with this idea, Wilms’ tumours
with a p53 mutation have a much poorer clinical response
to radio- and chemo-therapy than those tumours which
retain both wild-type p53 alleles (Bardeesy et al., 1994),
possibly because of an intrinsic increase in radiation-
resistance resulting from p53 inactivation. In addition, our
data predict that individuals with germline p53 mutations, .
such as individuals with Li-Fraumeni syndrome (Malkin er
al., 1990. Srivastava ef al., 1990), may be very susceptible
to radiation-carcinogenesis. Thus, if radiation is used to
treat tumours in such individuals, radiation-induced
tumours may be a common side-effect.

The increase in radiation-induced DNA damage
accumulation observed in mice deficient in p53 function
may play an important role in neoplastic development.
Expression of a mutant p53 transgene not only resulted in
an increased accumulation of radiation-induced
chromosomal breakage, but also an increased susceptibility
to radiation-induced carcinogenesis. Radiation exposure
may be the cause of many cancers, and the importance of
p53 in suppressing tumour development may be intimately
associated with its role in the radiation response and its
ability to control the accumulation of cells with radiation-

PUELICATIONS o45705