UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

 

SS HEALTH :
SCIENCES
CENTER |

 

ee April 10, 1992 -
DEPARTMENT OF MICROBIOLOGY.

Harmon C. McAllister

Research Director De
The Council for Tobacco. Research-U. S.A. ‘Inc.

900 Third Avenue

New York, NY 10022. .

Dear pe ier

For each of the past six years, the University of Virginia Cancer Center has sponsored a Fall
Symposium on a topic in basic cancer research.: Past topics have included: Molecular Biology of
Human Cancer; Protein Phosphorylation; The Ras Superfamily; Viruses, Oncogenes and Cancer; Gene
Regulation; and Signal Transduction. We wish to:thank you again for your financial contribution of
last year that helped make the 1991 meeting a great success.. For this coming fall, we are organizing
a symposium on Molecular Signalling and Cell Structure. Understanding the: molecular and
structural basis for the transmission of regulatory information from membrane to nucleus-is among
the central contemporary issues in molecular oncology and cell biology, and this symposium should

help to coalesce emerging ideas on the topic. a G e

Participants include Thomas Pollard Gis Hopkins), Thomas Stossel (Brigham and
Women’s Hospital), Timothy Springer (Rockefeller University), Thomas Leto (NIFH), Colin Hopkins -
(MRC, England ), and Inder Verma (Salk Institute).

The topics to be discussed range from studies on cell structure and growth factor receptors
to the analysis of gene expression. We feel that this conference is particularly timely and will help -
to focus on new ideas regarding cell-cell interactions, cell structure and cell signalling. Given the
multi-disciplinary nature of the topic and the. outstanding quality of the scientific participants, we
expect this symposium to be a major event in this rapidly developing field.

We are writing to ask your financial support for this symposium. Funds will be used to.
partially offset the costs of travel and local expenses of the speakers. We would, of course.
acknowledge your contributions in the program and in any advertisements for the Symposium
which are prepared subsequent to receiving a commitment from you. In addition, if The Council
for Tobacco Research scientists wish to attend the Symposium and engage in. discussions with the
participants or if sales representatives from The Council for Tobacco Research would like to set tup
a display at the Symposium, they would be made most welcome.

We look forward to hearing from you, and to your support fora stimulating meeting. : 7

Sincerely,

  
   

[fu p& uo Cerin
Michael J. Weber. . J. Thomas Parsons _
Professor of Microbiology _ Professor of Microbiology

So a AT

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE, BOX 441, CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA: 22908, 804-924-5111; FAX: 804- 982-1071 . |