PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: Distribution Date: 25 September, 1987
From: Barbro Goodman

Subject: CIGARETTES. FOR ANALYTICAL SIDESTREAM RESEARCH

Based on discussions between Chemical Research, Analytical
Research, and Cigarette Technology personnel, several cigarette
models were designed specifically for research on sidestream smoke
composition. The objective for the upcoming studies is to
investigate the efifect of cigarette circumference and Mg (OH) 2
wrapper. In order to provide a matrix for the analyses, prototypes
were made at three different circumferences (17 mm, 20 mm and 24.8
mm) each with a standard commercial wrapper (Kimberly-Clark 156)
and with a 12% Mg(OH)2 wrapper. All the cigarettes were made from
the same batch of tobacco in a nondiluted 100 mm filtered
configuration.

The selected blend was the current project TRIM blend with standard
production components. DBC Bright, DBC Burley, MT Oriental, RLTC
and RL 150B was used. It contained no stems or expanded tobaccos,
so that better looking ultra slim cigarettes could be produced. All
samples had the same casing and aftercut system.

The Hauni lab: max was: used for all three circumferences. Cellulose
acetate filters were made with widely varying efficiencies in an
effort to keep the mainstream tar deliveries within reasonable
levels. The tables attached to this memo give analytical data for
each of the models. As can be seen in Table I, the 17 mm
configuration gave extremely high RTDs for nonventilated
cigarettes. This could have an efffect on mainstream puffing to a
greater extent than for a standard circumference cigarette. Ultra
slim prototypes. typically have RTD’s above 6" water for 45. - 55%
filter ventilation. The variability of the RTD was also greater for
the slim cigarettes.

Tables II and III give the calculated diffferences in data for each
circumference with the commercial and the low sidestream wrappers
at standard circumference as controls.

2c0e

C87-@3852

aEStst