HK32191065

vitamin C studied in rabbits was shown to take place via Jowering
of the activity of antithrombin IZ (Poplawski, 1973) and not by
way of a chemical reaction, The inhibitory action of vitamin C
involves not only the antithrombin activity of heparin but also
the effect of the latter on lipoprotein lipase. In newborn
Sprague-Dawley rats, serum testosterone levels were found to
remain low between birth and Day 30, when a gradual rise occurred,
concomitant with the rise in serum LH {Lee et. a., 1974).

The present study was designed to investigate the influence
on testosterone synthesis of heparin via its antagonism with

ascorbic acid.
MATERIALS AND METHODS

Sixteen adult male Syrian golden hamsters weighing between
103 and 125 gms and thirty adult male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing
between 195 and 400 gms were used for this study.

The Syrian golden hamsters were divided randomly into two
groups of eight animals each. Likewise, the Sprague-Dawley rats
were divided randomly into groups of fifteen animals each. The
treatment groups received 2000 units of aqueous heparin (Lipo-
Hepin) per kilogram of body weight delivered subcutaneously and
divided into two daily doses given twelve hours apart. The control
group received normal saline subcutaneously in volumes equal to
their treatment group counterparts and according tc the same
injection schedule. Treatment was continued for fourteen days,

The animals were fed standard rodent diet and had water ad lib.

Two of the hamsters in the control group died, apparently
from injection; three hamsters in the treatment group died from
jarious bleeding problems, The remainder were sacrificed on Day 14
between four and.-five hours following their last injéction. An
overdose of pentobarbital sodium (Nembutal) was used for sacrifice.
Samples of testicular tissue were removed from each animal, quick-—
frozen in liquid nitrogen, and delivered to the laboratory in dry
ice, Testosterone determinations on tissue homogenates were per-
formed by a modification of the double isotope derivative assay*
method’ of Kliman and Peterson (1960).

* Assays were performed by the Biomedical Assay Laboratories
Division, New England Nuclear Corporation, Worchester, Mass,

CTR MN CONFIDENTIAL: MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION.