COCONINO COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH

 

GEORGE J. GRAHAM
Oweetor
Youth Access to Cigarettes

in Flagstaff, AZ
SUMMARY AND DISCUSSION

A recent round of unannounced compliance buys at 83 Flagstaff
tobacco retailers and vending machines has shown that minors could
@asily buy cigarettes. Compliance buy surveys completed nationwice
have documented that about 50-100% of the attempts were successful.

In Flagstaff, fifteen to sixteen year old youths bought cigarettes
61.4% of the time. The percentage jumps to 92% from. vending
machines. Over half of the vending machines were in clear sight of
employees, nonetheless, minors still bought cigarettes.

Warning signs stating the 18 year old age limit to purchase tobacco
products were posted at only 25.9% of locations. Identification
was asked of the minors only 33.7% of the time. On two occasions,
even after presenting the clerk with underage identification, the
clerk still sold the cigarettes to the minor.

Businesses most likely to sell to a minor were, gas/convenience
(46.8%), restaurant/bar (100%), and Other which included

hotels/motels, and bowling alleys (88.8%). Almost ail in the
restaurant/bvar and Other catagory were vending machines.
METHOD

In February, 1994, unannounced inspections (compliance buys) were
conducted at almost all Flagstaff tobacco retailers and vending
machines. This included 56 lecations where cigarettes can be
bought over-the-counter, and 27 vending machines. Although the
sample used was not random, nearly all of the tobacco retailers
were covered.

Minors ages 15-16 attempted to buy cigarettes at a total of &83
locations. Two minors, or a minor and adult escort (who would walk
in after minor to avoid association) entered the tobacco retail
outlet or vending machine location. The minor located the
Cigarettes, picked a name brand (Marlboro, Camel), brought them to
the cashier and attempted purchase. For vending machines they
would put the money in and buy the cigarettes. If.the minor was
asked their age or for I.D., they were instructed not to lie, and
to show their I.D.

After the purchase attempt, the minor filled out a questionnaire
that collected objective information based upon their observations

oz the location, situation and experience.
TIAZ 0001019

2500 NORTH FORT VALLEY ROAD « FLAGSTAFF ARIZONA 86001 « (602) 779-5164