New Scientist 23 September 1977

Se
Initial symptoms are those of severe gastroenteritis end
appear after a latent period of some 640 hours, when
the uptake of toxins by the body is well advanced. The
patient may be in a state of shock by the time the cause
of his condition is recognised. At this stage the dehydra:
tion and debihty caused by constant diarrhoea and vomiting
may. without propet treatment. be sufficient to cause
death but pahents surviving beyond ths pont vsually
enter a period of remission or apparent recovery

The later (and often terminal) stages produced by the
amatoxins are characterised by failure of the peripheral
circulation. massive drop in blood pressure and a greatly
weakened pulse: hallucinations often occur. Autopsies have
shown extensive liver and kidney damage and damage to
heart and skeletal muscle. The mortahty rate is over 50
per cent at present.

The electrolytic and fluid balance of the patient roust
be maintained. Haemodialysis is now regarded as almost
standard treatment. Slow infusion with thoctic (lipoic)
acid hes now been cleared with the US Food and Drug
Administration for emergency use, but needs further
evaluat:on.

Another protoplasmic toxin. gyromitrin (monomethy)
hydrazine} occurs in Gyromitra esculenta (brain fungus or
false morel) but may occur in species of Morchella and
Verpo. rhere have been deaths from Gyromitra even
among people who hod previously eaten it with impunity
and it appears that the toric properties may be accentu-
ated by decomposition There 1s a latent period, usually
of 68 hours. The symptoms are gastrointestinal upset to
gether with a “bloated” feeling with pains in the head.
stomach and liver. In severe cases there are respiratory
difficulties. irregular pulse and jaundire: dclizium and con-
vulsions may occur. The mortahty 2s lewer than in Amanita
poisonings. Death results from heart failure or liver damage
caused by the toxins

Treatment involves elimination of remaining toxc

 

-“_

a . -
— nes ° wo
h
. ! .
we
re
“

 

(a) (b) (¢) td)
Arnanits phatloides Amanita pantherina
Death cap Panthercap

Amari phatloideas (Dve:* 9)

Cap Usarliz come shade of pate olive green Sut may be Gertsntily brownnh salloonh oF
& Ad Unoatie with corber Arch redaing trom cap cenire, rarely orth whise patches
Foman-rg (rom uawernat vast Sulb white OF greasah chen eh pngde be © paveerning
Ring on exaTd Baghee volves ensicany bulbous bese of stem Gills ond Plan whso Jule
carly November Prondore wood: expaciais becth 6x8 cok (0) Shown tonges Sraabing
through omwernn) vt (DD Prrical ead stl commeang pity {tig h Raa 19d some OOOH IO 10
the erronwens Gecaron the. ihe a 6 tsng-tens Spee -et 006 ineretore nor bm Amman’

Ge} Paryre tras Bods (0) Soccenn absough sramnure “ogg” ebony URepeeD! wee! entaet

Amanizn ponthwian (Pantheron)

Cap + wmode brown eth arrears margin eabeally in maiure specimens. Romuphie tt”
Sareseny pene: ware white Gan ond Amd erie Wane eiald wih rng an6 1.) “hoon”
epeve bats! Bulb Volva nen haghte but clone end cepehaped AugusiOrioder frengme
ronda enpetielly marge oF both

 

787

. : : ’

 

matencl from the body and is thereafter essentially
symptonatic and supportive ;

Central nervous system toxins Ameonita muscoria (iy
agaric) and A pontherine (panthercap) contain ibotenic
atid and muscimol, ito which the former degrades. Musca-
zone a}so occurs as Goes muscarine (first isolated from
A muscorta) but not in physiologically active quantities
At one time muscarine was thought to be the active
principle and patients were given atropine as an antidote.
Untortunately this exacerbates the action of muscimol 60
patients who might have recovercd untreated may have
died medically assisted deaths’ Sedatives and tranquillisers
must be used cautiously as their effect is potentiated by
muscimol.

_ The variation in toxicity with season. geographical distri-
bution, age of specimen ef: makes the recreational use of
either fly agenc or panihcercap hazardovs Symptoms
appear soon after ingestion and include nausea, vomiting.
fierce headaches. confusion and muscle spasms and may
involve epileptictype fits. Treatment, after elimination of
toxic materia! is symptomatic. with chlorpromazine to ter-
minaté hallvcnations if necessary.

Muscarine is contained, at 3 physiologically active level.
in sore small. white species of Clitocybe and many species
of Inotybe; both groups can be fatal and all Inocybe species
soust be regarded as seriously poisonous.

Syriptoms appear soon after ingestion ond include
greatly increased sweating and secretion from mouth. nose.
eves. bronchi and pancreas etc. There is stomach-ache,
diarrhoea and vomiting, decreased heart rate, lowered
blood pressure. increased vasodilation, disturbed vision and
respiratory difficulty. The patient may collapse. When
death occurs it is due to damage to the heart muscles.
Atropine 1s the specific antidote with supportive and svmr-
tomatic measures as required.

The increasing interest in “magic” mushrooms could lead
to muscarine poisoning. The seeker after “psychoactive”

 

Coprinus atramontarius
Inkeap

Agaricus xanthodermus
Yellow stamer

Agarires uanthoderrevs (Yellow stane?} .
Whole trun bods white, soled. alghtty sequare’ bopb.ag chp Peceming plane Atl parts
Drume Eraghs potion on handing anspor cally eh the cut ese ef thw tell Gels oF whine,
betom:.ng panbed, eventualiy cart browned. foby-Noveendor Usually pacow woods

Coprinus atvampacerins (Intcasl ;

Cap cingy grer brown 2 pols. wrens uth ecales e: contre, ¢ Ermer ed BI ERaTES
Bing-lihe g0n9 Of brawnuh Abtsts By bare OF whee erat, Gil oB-who, Garbereng
wvontunsty extedgentong 190 ented bisch enh Usealty growend ghemore Play appear «6
np enonth. evgat enue) Pt - trenens words

a .

 

FARNING The ebove named epecize are exampice of Britis!
tour fongl. M mast noi be asmuned (hat worcies O° meatiooed
are e.