a

786

#

New Scientest 29 Septerober 1977

ee a
Venereous meats

en
"Fungi ben mussherons .... There be two maners of them, one maner Is deedly and sleeth them

 

 

—————

 

—<———

Ray Cowell

isa mycogastronomist
and painter. Sbe ts
working on 3 book on
how to eat fungi

For simple logic that statement
from The grete herball of 1526 is
hard to better but in the centuries
since the great herbalists we haye
learnt that proximity to serpent's
dens is not necessarily an accurate
criterion for distinguishing 9 “Musherom” from a
“vinomous Tadstoole™.

Also. research into mycotoxins allows us to assign more
specific causes of illness and death than the “pitiless fate”
Gted by Euripides in the Sth century 8c. He was visiting
Icarus when a woman, her maiden daugh'er and two grown
sons were “strangl'd” by the eating of fungi which they had
gathered. All four died in the one day. thus earning them.
selves a place in history Claudius also died after eaung a
dish of mushrooms (ap 54) but in his case it was merely a
vehicle for the poison employed by his wife. Agrippina.

The old idea that the vast majonty of the larger fungi
were venomous is a complete reversal of the truth, most
are either harmless or inedible but a large number are
well worth seeking out as gourme: additions to one’s dict.
W. D. Hay wrote in British Fung: (1887) that “no fad or
hobby is esteemed so contemphble as that of “fungus
hunter” or “toadstool eater”. Today the rapidly i:iereasing
interest in edible fung) has spread to the sup rmarket
magazine

Over a century ago. Badham in his Treatse on the
Esculent Funguses of England was debunking the silver
spoon test for edibibty Unfortunately such ignorance is
still current. It cannot be said too often that the only safe
way of determining edibility 1s by accurate identification
But old wives’ tales are still widely beheved and the cut-
rently expanding use of wild mushrooms (for whatever
purpose} will inevitably lead to an increase in the inadence
of porsonmngs, some of which may prove fatal. After cen-
tures as a largely mycophobic nation we are ill-prepared
to meet the problem sn countries where people go out
mushroom huntng as naturally as we go blackberrying.
there are charts and posters to aid in identification and
which warn against dangerous speces. Jn some places
there are experts available for ennsultation. Doctors and
medical services are much better informed about myco
towns and the treatment of people poisoned in this way

In Britain, many of the GPs } have asked admit that ihey
would not know how dest to cope when faced with a case
of fungus poisoning In mild cases they would simply give
supportive treatment and. where this failed or in mitrally
more serious cases. would centact onc of the poisons units
None mentioned identifying the fungus Few would know
the name of a local mycologist Some doctors have the
Royal Somety for the Prevention of Acagents (ROSPA)
poster Credit must be given to ROSPA for produane it
but it has poor poctures and httle real imformation It
includes some Jess serious spemes while leaving oul others
which can actually kall The Brinsh Notional Formulary
contains a short section on the emergency treatment of
poiwons but makes no sprofic relerence to treating the
efircts of posonous fungs Happily. the British Medicat
Assonation is aware of the hkelhood of an increase in thy
type of poisoning and, with the Brotish Mycological Society.
8 considerane the possibihty of producing a diagnostic
handbook for practising doctors
_The best advice an any case of suspected fungus

On Mithenme: sea a vancrones Meat’

 

that eateth of them and be called tode stoles and the other doeth not”

 

 

poisoning is to go to the nearest hospital. Much time will
be saved, which may make a literally vital difference.
especially in cases Of Amanita poisoning.

The Guernsey couple who in October 1973 each ate some
five or six “delicious” death caps (Amanita phalloides)
for breakfast were lucky. Their doctor identified the fungus
and took appropriate action. They were transfesred to the
Intensive Care Liver Urut at King’s College Hospita).
Londen. which had been alerted by the Poisons Centre at
Guy's Hospital. Both eventually recovered after treatment
although the wife was put onto carbon adsorption after she
had lapsed into an hepatic coma

As with any other food. the question of allergy arises.
Caution should be observed in eating new foods of what:
ever kind Like al? other fonds, fungi are altered by the
chemistry of decay and some. reports of fungus poisoning
are probably not due to the shushrooms themselves but to
decomposition products

Deaths from mushroom poisoning are infrequent in
Briain tt is unlikely that we will ever reach the death
rate of several hundreds found in some continental coun-
tries. but it might be snteresting if the Registrar General
covld again keep separate records This has not been done
since 1949 In the period 192] to )949, 38 deaths were
notified

The most practical method of classifying the mycotoxins
is by their efiect Leaving aside ergotism. the four main
classes found in the higher fungi are: 1. protoplasme
toxins, 2. central mervous system towns. 3 gastrointestinal
toxins: and 4 those causing towaly only when taken with
alcohol Fungi containing al) four groups of mycotoxins
ere found in Britain but the majority of the poisonous
species are gastromniestinal in efiect

Protoplasmic toxins These are found in some species
of Amonita.1e A pholioides, A. virosa, and A. verna. There
are two main groups of Amanita toxins, phallotoxins and
amatoxins These complex cyclopeptides consist of amino
acids (seven in the phallotoxins and eight in the amatoxins!.
linked by peptide bonds which form a continuous ning
structure, the peptide bond joins amino groups (-NH,\ and
carboxy! groups (COOH) by ehmmnation of a molecule of
water In both types of compound certain portions of the
molecule ae cruqal to tounty For example. in the
amatoxi amenulten, elmunation of a single hydroxy! group
from one amino aad detoxifies the molecule Yet removal
of the corresponding hydroxy) group in the phallotoxins
has iittie elect The toxc species of Golerina contains
amatoxins but no phallotoxins

Between 90 and 95 per cent of fungus-induced deaths are