. 9 abe BARNET ENS ETI SS a her pe cma eee 2

i HOH,
= '
788 New Scientist 29 September 3977

   

| NANO
| ADDRI AS

 
 

As informstion on recent fungus polisonings in Britain
is widely dispersed and seldom published. there is a
great need for It to be collected and collated. This } am
willing to do and 1 am therefore appealing to readers
for any data they can provide.

1 require information on poisonous. allergentr and
bollucinogenic species but it should relate only to
readers’ own experiences or those for which they can
personally vouch.

All communications will be acknowledged and treated
as confidential. .

Ray Cowell. Breeds Farm, 87 High Street. Wicken. nr
Ely, Cambs CB? SAR.

       
   
   
   
   
   
   
      

species looks for small brown mushrooms. vsually growing
in grassy places This broad description fits most Inocybe
species and misidentsfication 1s possible

Accidental ingestion of the species of Pstlocybe.
Ponceolis and Conocybe containing psilocybe/psitocin can
cause alarming symptoms. especially in children They
include anxiety. difficulty in concentration and in under-
standing. also hallucinations The symptoms appear within
an hour but usually disappear spontaneously some hours
later. Usually only supportive treatment is required but
chlorpromazine may be necessary. Litlle is known about
long-term effects.

Gastrointestinal irritants Many brit not all this group
are thermolabile A number of species from a wide range
of genera, including Lactarius, Russula. Tricholome. Mor.
chella and others produce gastromtestinal symptoms of
varying severity. In the space available it is possible to
mention only two. both species of Ayancus. A. xantho-
dermus and A. fmeleagris: placomyces Both these are

@ pasi two years the Bnosh Assomaton for he Advancemen! of
knownas the Tnden! Teleumon Award lor Communcaton ai Smence

ideas Cwrentin any ares of scence The winner isselecied pard

suchideas Ongnnabty is desirable.
broad smenthe concepts ;
The award 15 open to al) Bndsh smenasis workong in ur vermbes.

work
Appbcanre. enould reach tho Both Agzocatoan by Nuexlay November 5th 1977
Fa appucadonioms please tuiin Coupon

ee me eee mom ee ee eee ee ee oe ee oe ee
To the Ranh Assarasnon for the Advancement al Scence Fortress House 23 Somle Kon
London W140 AH)

Feo vend ay Bppheaton forms fer the Trident Srernre Asgard O°* “Me

— em == .
ee wee ee ee re ee, ee ee ee cee

For i
Soence has collaborated with the The er! Telesision Group in awarding 8 pnze

‘The purpose of the award 1810 broacien public knowledge of imponant

a yfoi husor her
contbubon to smenbiic thought and partly for hus or her abualjty to commurocate
y umporianiis ihe abibry to expound

 

guthered for food. A. zonthodermus (yellow stamer) close):
resembics A. Orvensis (horse mushroom) in appearance bu
bruises bright yellow in all parts, particularly when thi
bulbous base of the stalk is cut. It smells of phenol 0
“Quink Ink”, especially when cooked

Approximately one in ten people react with gastro
intestinal symptoms which appear within a few hours—
very much a case of “one man’s mushroom is another man’:
poison”. Normally recovery takes a few hours or days anc
is complete when the last toxic remnants have beer
eliminated from the system. However, some peuple Secome
comatose.

A. placomyces has been mistaken for A. silvaticus (woot
mushroom) but the scales are finer and grey not brown
It also stains yellow in the base of the cut stalk. Symptom:
in beth are similar and treatment is supportive

Alcohol toxtcity This occurs when one. particular inkcay
(Coprimus atramenterius) is cnsumed with alcohol. Despite
& Suggestion in an otherwise highly reputable magazine
eorlier this year it is not a good idea to use it as a guide
to overindulgence at parties. In effect this fungus contain:
antabuse (used in the treatment of chronic alcoholism)
which upsets the metabulsm of a'cohol in the blood anc
Causes an accumulation of toxic acetaldehydes. producing
an effect similar to paraldehyde poisoning. It is contra
indicated in a wide variety of diseases.

The symptoms include reddening of the face and neck..¢
metallic taste in the mouth. pvelpitations, profoundly
increased pulse rate (up to $0 per cent) and a sensation
of swelling in the hands Nausea is common and the patient
may vomit or faint. Symptoms may recur over several days
if alcohol is again taken. In clinical usage antabuse is not
given within )2 hours of the last intake of alcohol: during
treatment alcohol is given as a challenge dose only. t

 

The British Association
for the Advancement of Science

invites entries for the Trident Television Award
for Communication in Science 1977/78

The award consists of a medal, £1,000
in cash and participation in a nationally
networked television programme
originated by Yorkshire Television
( member d the Tndent Television Group '

Governmen: research es\ablishizants and uidusty who have published ongina)

Jodgessineiwse
Prolesse WE Bodmer = Profeaso: of Genenes Unuvemmty of Odea
FRS Charman BA Stady Group an Sac.a. Concem ang

Bolope a Advance

Su MarggvePinuston Charman Seon Engantened bs

FRS Formera Charman Bdah Stee: Comoredon
Pan Genera) Seceeiary ol the Bnush 1aDOn,
Se levan Masdock. Secretary of the Banah Atsomy!
Cb OBE fas ben
WN» Duncan Dallas Edo: Sence Programmes Yoristure Televnon