ASSOCIATED PRESS
AAA WIRE

PAAR {caS

“Smokers Find Ally in Maryland Legislature
“By TOM STUCKEY=

“Associated Press Writer=
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) _ After years of watching their right to light

up slowly whittled away, smokers are abcut to get some relief from
the Maryland General Assembly. .

The legislature is nearing enactment of a bill that would make it
illegal for employers to refuse to hire somecne because that person
is a smoker. Both the House and Senate are on record as supporting
the measure, making it likely a bill will be sent to the governor
before the legislature adjourns April ia.

Gov. William Donald Schaefer has not taken a position on the issue.
Bruce C. Bereano, lobbyist for The Tobacco Institute, said he knows
of no other state that has a Similar law, although the Viroinia
legislature voted this year ta prohibit discrimination by state and
local governments against smokers.

Identical bills intreduced in the Maryland House and Senate go much
further than the Virginia law, covering all private employers as well
as public agencies. An employer could not refuse to hire or oroemete a
worker or fire him simply because that employee smokes when he is not
at work.

Sponsers of the twa bills say they deal with freedom and individual
rights, not smoking, dismissing the arguments of opponents wha say
employers have a right to try to reduce the costs associated with
smeking.

“*7T just see this as a right that people have to perform legal acts
in their homes as long as it doesn’t jeopardize their job
performance, '’ Delegate George W. Owings ILI said Friday.

The Maryland legislation was prompted in part by a pelicy adapted a
year ago by the Mentgamery County fire arid rescue services. The
suburban Washington, D.C., county makes new employees sign ar
agreement that they will not smoke on or off duty as leng as they
work for the department.

Owings, whese district is in the tobacco growing region of sauthern
Maryland, said he wonders what will come next if employers can get
away with telling people they can’t smcke.

‘Will they tell you that you can’t watch Channel 97 You car enby |
watch Channel 11 between the hours of if and seven? You can't read
The Haltimore Sun’?

‘*‘What are they going to take away next???
“TF you want ta take it to the extremes,
company, cauld say, “If you want ta work here, you have ta Ssmake,
he said.

Ger. Aibert Wynn, sponsor of the Senate version of the bill, said he
has seen newspapers ads offering yobs only for non-smokers, shawimg
that the Montgomery Courty agency is not the only employer te

penalize smokers.
‘*This is discrimination, and it ought te be a prohibited act,’’

tar
On

Qwinas asked.

an employer, say a tabacce
e049

Wyrm said.
Dooenents of tne bill argued in committee and during flocar debate

that emoloayers have a legitimate interest in whether their emolayees
smoke because smokers have more health oroplems, resulting in higher
health insurance ccsts.

Wynn said if emoloyers car discri
of higher costs, they can move on
overweight pecole and pecolie with high bleoad pressure.

minate against smokers. cm the oasis
from there ta discriminate against

AP -NY-@3-26-89 Z249E5T

DELPCOSTOe