A"; UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
(sz) REGION
a +f. KENNEDY FEDERAL BUILDING, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02209-2211

April 8, 1994

  
   

Mr. DonaldSaith, President dene:
Friendly” Ice Crean Corporation

1855 ton Road

wi . MA 02095 Sere y /d- 543-240
Dear Mr. Snith:

As the Chief Executive Officer of a major fast-food corporation,
you have a tremendous opportunity to work in partnership with the
Environmental Protection Agency on an important environmental
health issue - secondhand snoke. As you know, the impacts of
secorithand tobacco smoke - especially in children - are now
Gocumented as significant. I hope you will join your colleagues in
making New England the region of the country that shows the vay for
the rest of America when it comes to addressing this potential
public health issue.

You can most directly do so by adopting no smoking policies in all
of your restaurants. This single act would make a ‘substantial
impact - both in the health of your customers and in setting an
example for others in your industry.

EPA has classified Environmental Tobacco smoke (ETS) as a known
human carcinogen. EPA has also documented that ETS causes between
150,000 and 300,000 lower respiratory tract infections in infants
and children resulting in between 7,500 and 15,000 hospitalizations
each year. Not only does ETS aggravate syaptoaus in between 200,000
and 1,000,000 asthmatic children, but it also causes thousands of
non-asthmatic children to develop the condition each year.

The service and quality you offer in your restaurants attracts the
segment of our population which is most vulnerable to secondhand
gnoke - teenagers and young children. Please consider this request.

_and help us reduce the threat of secondhand smoke on all your

customers, especially the youngest and most vulnerable.

ZI volunteer the support of EPA to assist you in obtaining this
goal. Thank you.

Sincerely,

- 9

~ =

ohn Devi aj

Regional Adninistrator g

Enclosure *
cc: New England States Attorneys General “es
¥ ‘

PRINTED ON RECYCLED Papen

 

OS86 OLozsS