Vv.

Potential Funding Sources

The following should be considered to generate additional
funds to cover the $106.9MM impact of the recommended FET
program.

1.

w
.

A duly introduction of MS is projected to generate an
incremental$7,2MM in gross profit.

A duly expansion of DORAL ULT is projected to generate an
incremental $1.3MM in gross profit.

RIRT could raise list prices prior to October to generate
additional revenue and stagger the FET impact at retail
over several months. For example, if RJRT took a 4¢/pack
increase effective August 1, an additional $56MM in
hypothetical revenue/profit would be generated for the
2-month August/September period prior to the October tax
increase (based on average RJRT weekly volume of 3.5
billion). However, this figure needs to be adjusted due
to trade protection terms and the volume loss associated
with the price increase. A guesstimated $35MM could be
obtained from this source depending on the timing of the
increase and trade terms.

Cancel special multi-page media units currently planned
for WINSTON, SALEM and CAMEL, This would generate $8MM

and would have to be committed to beginning mid-ist
Quarter,

Decrease 1987 Corporate Intercept Couponing program on
core brands. Total 1987 budget is $45 million. If, for
example, 50% (2nd Half, 1987) of the WINSTON/SALEM
program is cut and 75% of the CAMEL program cut, $23MM

will be generated, The impact of cuts on future supplier
availabilities needs to be discussed with Promotion.

Decrease print media support on targeted appeal brands.
Second half MORE print is $4.4MM and NOW is §7.6MM.
Assumed agency fee remains constant.

The equivalent of a one to two month print media hiatus
on core brands which should yield 5 to 10 Million after

22 <2
Yate adjustments.

Items 1-7 generate approximately $90MM resulting in a
shortfall versus total program costs of $17MM.

8.

Next group of funds would be generated from brand
promotion budgets. In addition, consideration could be
given to reducing the MS introductory print advertising
budget if required.

87LO 8090S