CHARGE NO, 6906. -2- FEBRUARY 2, 1984

 

Diethyl malate (DEM), a positive control compound, was re-
tested. Incubation conditions were modified in an attempt to
optimize the results from extended incubations (30 and 60 min.)
with the test compound. These modifiications consisted primarily
of incubating the V79 cells (6) in a 5% CO, and 95% humidity
environment. Analysis of the data from this experiment revealed a
more linear response for the 30 and 60 minute plates at all doses
tested. The current protocol has been modified to incorporate
these changes in incubation.

Both the initial and modified experiments gave comparable
results: a dose/responce was evident at the highest doses of DEM
tested (0.1 and 1.0 mm).

Acetaminophen, another positive control compound, was tested
in the GSH assay with and without activation. The activation
system utilized had previously been established for V79 cells by
H. Garcia. (7) Two mls of the reaction mixture +/- S9 and ace-
taminophen (0, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mM) were preincubated for
five minutes at 37°C to avoid any temperature shock to the cells.
Following preincubation, these reaction mixtures were added to
plates containing cells, washed with phosphate buffered saline
immediately prior to addition, and further incubated at 37°C for
an additonal 15, 30 or 60: min. Analysis of the data indicated no
dose/responce for any of the does of acetaminophen tested, how-
ever, plates incubated with S9 contained 2X the amount off GSH of
plates: incubated without S9. Experiments are planned to quanti-
tate the amount of GSH contributed to the reaction mixture by S39,

CSC from 2R1, in the absence of metabolic activation, was
also tested in the assay. Results are currently being analyzed and
will be reported next month.

TV. = 001402453 |

Analysis of a rephosphorylation of the three previous CSC-SD-
DNA experiments with a fresh batch of 32P-ATP failed to reveal the
existence of any adducts. Analysis. of a 1D TLC indicated that the
phosphorlyation of normal bases had taken place. Subsequent to
these experiments SD-DNA was labeled with a freshly prepared batch
of 2R1 CSC, Phosphorylation of this labeled SD~DNA and analysis
by 2D TLC-AR revealed the existence of at least 7 faint adduct
Spots upon extended exposure. However, when stored digests of
this experiment and the initial CSC-SD-DNA experiment, which was
performed with fresh CSC. and demonstrated the existance of
adducts was rephosphorylated and analyzed the following week, no
adducts could be detected. Since adducts were present in both of
these samples. when analyzed immediately after labeling with fresh