HIGHLIGHTS 5:48 PM MON., 23 JAN., 1984
BIGBEHAVIORAL RESEARCH

i.Smoke Component Dose (Chamberlin, Reynolds)

Software has been developed for the HP-84B computer which success-
fully transmits positioning and valving commands to the human-mimnic
smoking machine controller. The timing of the commands (one command
every 40 milliseconds) appears to be entirely adequate. Software for the
HP-1000 computer which translates puff-profile data into positioning
commands is already on hand. Minor modifications of this software are
required to incorporate valving commands. Once this is complete, a test
in which full sets of commands will be generated, downloaded to the HP
HP-86B, and transmitted te the smoking machine will be made. Assuming
the success of this test, the smoking machine will be operational with-
in a matter of days.

2. Psychophysiology (Gilbert, Chamberlin, Ingram)

Computer processing of the EEG data from the smoking and stress
study is complete, including the generation of plots of EEG power spec-—
tra. Essentially all other data from the smoking and stress study have
been entered into computer data files, proofread and corrected. Statis-—
tical analyses of these data are underway. Preliminary results should

be available shortly.
3. Nicotine Pharmacology (Lippiello, Davis, Robinson, Ingram)

The first experiments with the new, tritiated, L-nicotine have
been completed. The binding affininty (Kd ~ 20 nM) and maximum binding
Capacity (Bmax ~ 100 fmoles/mg protein>d of the surine neuroblastona-as—
sociated receptor sites agree well with our previously reported values.
The Baax value translates into roughly 2000 binding sites per cell. Ex-
periments to determine the pharmacological specificity of these sites

have commenced. ©

The Zeiss ICM405 phase/fluorescence microscope has been ordered. |

Dr. John Robinson is attending the Winter Brain Research Confer-
ence in Colorado. At this meeting, he will confer with Dr. Deaduwyler
(Bowman Gray School of Medicine) and Dr. Dudek (Tulane University) in
regard to establishing research protocols for the study of the effects
of nicotine on the rat hypothalamus. It is hoped that this work can be
carried out at Bowman Gray concurrently with recently funded work on the
rat hippocampus. Additionally, Dr. Robinson will consult with Dr. Dead-
wyler and Dr. Weodward (Univ. of Texas Medical Center at Dallas) in re-
gard to generation of research proposals for the thorough investigation
of the effects of nicotine on the rat brain by means of in-vive ionto-
phoresis and/or imaging of metabolic sites of 2-deaexyglucose.

4. Blood Chemistry (Davis, Ingram)

( The procedure described.by Curvall, et al. (3. Chromatog., 232, 283-
293 (4982]) for the extraction of nicotine and cotinine from blood plasma
is under evaluation. Samples have bean extracted but chrosatographic re-

Sults are not yet available.

SLLO 86705

eee nee an

2 _ €