Nov-18-99 12:03P

SOUTHERN TESTING AURIGINAL sorsrontes, INC,

ANALYTICAL METHOD

DATE: May 8, 1997 MTH#: AGR-028.2
(Replaces AGP-028.1)

TITLE: Maleic Hydrazide: Determination of Maleic Hydrazide (MH-30) in Tobacco.

SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY
This method is applicable to the Agrochemical Sciences Department or anyone performing the analysis
of maleic hydrazide on tobacco at STRL.

SAFETY AND OPERATING PRECAUTIONS

Personnel must be thoroughly acquainted with the potential hazards of the reagents, products, salvents.
equipment, and procedures used in the facility. The current Material Safety Data Sheets for the
chemicals used in this method should be consulted.

WASTE GENERATION, HANDLING, AND DISPOSAL
Follow all relevant company Standard Operating Procedures, state and local ordinances.

INTERFERENCE

Flasks must be clean, dry and free of zine before analyzing any samples. Any residual zine left in a
flask would react with the MH in the pre-digestion phase, thus giving lower results, Any water left in
the flask would have to be bytled off prior to reaching the proper temperature. Also, tobacco would
have a tendency to cling to the flask if wet, not allowing all of the sample to be pre-digested.

EQUIPMENT

Spectrophotometer: Shimadzu UV-160, UV-visible recording spectrophotometer
Automatic temperature controller with thermocouple

Syringe pump with the ability to house at least 50 ml. syringe

Ring stand equipped with clamps and ring supports

Gas burner

Specially designed MH-30 flasks. Prism Glassware

Nitrogen adapters with screw cap closures and nitrogen stems, University Research Glassware
MH-30 condenser, University Research Glassware

Glass Y connecting tubes

Thermometers, capable of measuring up to 200 °C

Ceramic centered wire gauze, 5 inch square with 3.5 inch diameter ceramic center
50 mI. graduated plastic self standing collection tube with screw cap

Beakers, 2000 mL. 500 mL, 25 mL

Lab Jacks

Volumetric flasks, 1000 mL, 100 mL

Plastic wash bottles, 500 mL, one for DI water, the other for 1:9 acid

REAGENTS
Sodium hydroxide, cert. ACS pe ee Buy Slog Los
Zine metal, pravular, 204A tes ile 7
p-Dimethylaminabenzaldehyde, reagent grade
Ferrous chloride, cert. ACS
Note: Color of ferrous chloride should be bright green. Do nat use if it is rust brown or yellow.

Property of Southern Testing and Research Laboraturies, Inc.
Page 1 of 6

eLoceegLoe