Nov-18-99 12:04P P.06
eo be bat
UR } eh via
SOUTHERN TESTING AND RESEARCH LABORATORIES, INC,
ANALYTICAL METHOD

DATE: May 8. 1997 MTH#A: AGR-028.2
(Replaces AGP-028.1)

controller and syringe pump before performing this analysis.

26. Hf the temperature controller and syringe pump have been assembled correctly and turned on, the
sample digestion should proceed properly with no intervention. Distill until the volume in the
50 mL collection tube in the ice bath reads 40 mL, :

27. Turn off the gas to the burner and take the flask off the MH rig. Disassemble the MH flask under
the hood and add a small amount of water.

28. Remove the 50 ml. collection tube from the ice bath, cap, record the exact valume (see note at
bottom of this page). and shake the tube well Place tube in the sample holding rack.

29. Rinse the nitrogen adapter and stem thoroughly with Di water into the waste buckel.

30. Pour the cuntents of the MH flask into the same bucket. Clean flask using DI water and 1:9
hydrochloric acid, then place carefully into the acid soaking bucket.

31. Rinse inside of the condenser and tip thoroughly using 1:9 acid and DI water. ‘Ihe rig is now ready
fo accept another sample flask.

Reading and Calculating Results
32. Turn on the spectrophotometer and allow the lamp to warm up for at least 30 minutes.

33. Perform the necessary wavelength calibration checks as described in the SOP for the spec.

34. Under mode, select 1 for photometric and answer yes to the “any changes” prompt.

3§. Select 5 for “how many wavelengths, answer 3 and set the wavelengths in the following order: 490,
460, and 430.

36. Answer "yes" to the prompt "any changes", then sclect 6 for data processing.

_ 37. Answer "no" to the prompt "any changes". The spec is now ready to read samples.

38. Read the absorbance using | cm glass cells. Make sure that the cells are clean.

39. Aute zero using a blank and make sample readings against the same blank,

Note: A blank is prepared by adding 4 ml, p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde solution to a collection tube

and bringing the volume to 40 mL with DJ water.

40, Samples are read after the instrument has been properly auto zeroed with the blank.

4. Place sample into the front cecil compartment and close the door before taking a reading.

42. Clean the sample cell with DI water, acetone, then hexane between each sample and wipe the outside
dry with a Kimwipe.

43. The data sheet fram the spec will have five columns. They are: 1) entry number, 2} Abs I,
3) Abs 2, 4) Abs 3, and 5) result. The result is calculated by the instrument by the following
equation:

(Abs 430 + Abs 490)

44, Calculate the concentration of MU in the samples using results from the spec and linear regression

of the standard curve from the Clipper linear regression software program on the laboratory computer

network, Print resuits and retain and file the printouts appropriately as raw data.

Note: Correction nvust be made for actual distilled volames, if they are not exactly 40 mL. For

the stundurd curve preparations, multiply the concentration of the standard by 46, divided by the

distilled volume to obtain the uctual standard concentration. For sumples multiply the
- concentration obtained fron the linear regression program by the distilled volume divided by 40.

Property of Southern Testing and Research Laboratories, Inc.
Paye 4 of 6

$L0Zezgz92