P. F. Ittermann
‘April 11, 1986
Page 4

ne

e The theater industry is changing. Theaters are moving to the suburbs, and are
building complexes which provide mini-screens/multi features to accommodate
larger and more diverse audiences. Theater ownership is now concentrated in the
hands of a few major chains whose primary purpose is to make money. Small
independents are going out of business each year, and inner city theaters are

- on the decline. We do not feel MDD's recommendation to realign the theaters to
adjust for lower socioeconomic patrons is a feasible alternative since the
projected growth areas will be major metro markets and not small non-metro
markets.

CONCLUSIONS

Media agrees that the concept behind Moviegoer was appropriate for CAMEL in 1982,
and based upon the Moviegoer data on hand at that time, the idea of reaching
CAMEL's target via movies was extremely viable. ©

However, much has changed since that time relative to both patron and smoker
demographics. MDD research shows that the audiences now attending movies tend to
be the more educated, higher income people who have larger discretionary incomes.
Conversely, the MDD data on smokers shows that smokers are trending toward the
other end of the spectrum relative to discretionary income/education.

As a further means of comparison, Media researched Movieline Magazine which
distributes 100M copies in the Los Angeles area. We felt this publication could
offer additional insight via their in-house research, and if appropriate,
additional local advertising opportunities for CAMEL. Their audience demographics
were very similar to the audience demographics of Moviegoer. Specifically,
Movieline's research profiled the average movie patron as mid-20's — 40 in age,
$48M average HHI and above average education (either attended or graduated
college).

Secondly, while Moviegoer does skew 18-24, we must not overlook the fact that
other publications such as Rolling Stone and Us deliver this audience more effi-
clently.

In addition to being inefficient, Moviegoer does not provide heavy impressions
delivery in key CAMEL divisions, and therefore, we can not consider it an effi-
cient local medium.

Judgmentally, we do not feel we can continue to justify using Moviegoer as a media
vehicle for the CAMEL brand. As CAMEL's advertising budget decreases each year,
we feel this publication (and the percent of our magazine budget it represents) is
an expense we can no longer afford relative to the media value it provides. The
_usage of multi-pages in one issue further erodes our existing Brand strategies and
is inconsistent with our Corporate philosophy regarding per issue insertion

levels/separation guidelines. As you are aware, the nature of our industry

requires frequent changes to meet Brand needs. Any fixed commitment must be
ignored when modifying the media plan to meet these needs. When additional funds
are needed for promotions, etc., Media must always look to other publications for
funding alternatives. To effectively make cancellations/changes, it is imperative

0062 8E40S

e

rer