389
CONCLUSIONS

We have shown that chick sympathetic neuronal AChRs undergo
several changes in channel properties during late embryonic
development. In contrast to muscle AChRs in which there is a
developmental transition from embryonic (slow) channels to adult (fast)
channels (for a review, see Schuetze and Role, 1987), chick sympathetic
neurons undergo a developmental increase in the number of channel
types, from three (S, M and L) to four (S, M, L and XL). Furthermore, the
chick AChRs show a change in the relative proportion of the channel
classes. It is intriguing that both of these changes in channel properties
occur during the first major wave of synaptogenesis in vive. To further
examine the role of innervation in these observed changes in channel
properties, we are studying the properties of AChRs on sympathetic
neurons before and after innervation im vitro by their normal
presynaptic partners, where the time of synaptogenesis can be
documented more precisely.

In addition to being regulated over the course of development, the
properties of sympathetic neuronal AChRs are also acutely regulated by
neuropeptides. A likely candidate for such a nevromedulator in chick
sympathetic ganglia is substance P. In muscle and Torpedo the
phosphorylation-dependent enhancement of desensitization of the
nicotinic receptor has been well documented (Middleton et al. 1986;
Huganir et al., 1986; Albuquerque et al., 1986; Eusebi et al., 1987),
although the physiological mediator of this effect is not known. We
wished to determine whether SP could be modulating chick sympathetic
neuron nicotinic receptors via a second messenger mechanism. Here,
using the cell-attached patch clamp protocol, we have shown that SP
application decreases the frequency of ACh-gated single channel events
and the apparent mean open time of the channels, while the single
channel elementary current remains unchanged. These results are
consistent with a SP-induced enhancement of nicotinic receptor
desensitization. Furthermore, the protocol used suggests that SP is
exerting its effect via a second messenger. Additional experiments in our
laboratory indicate that protein kinase C - dependent phosphorylation is

 

50578135