383

Preliminary experiments indicate three developmental changes in
channel properties in neurons removed on ED 16-17, during the first
major wave of synaptogenesis. In addition to 8, M and L, a new channel
amplitude class (denoted XL) appears (Figure 2). This new class, which
has a slope conductance of 60-65 pS, is also specifically activated by ACh.
In outside-out patches, XL openings are observed only during the
application of ACh, and in cell-attached patches, the frequency of XL
openings increases with increasing ACh concentration. A second change
in channel properties is a change in the relative frequency with which
the classes occur in patches. In ED 16-17 neurons, M and L are now the
predominant classes (about 60% of the patches), whercas S is the least
common class (about 30% of the patches). A third change in channel
properties is that the percentage of patches with just one amplitude class
increases from 11% at ED 10 to 55% at ED 16-17. These changes in
channel properties are consistent with the observation that innervation
of these neurons in vitro by their normal preganglionic partners is
accompanied by a ten-fold increase in total ACh sensitivity (Role, 1988).
This increased ACh sensitivity of the cells following synapse formation
may be due, in part, to the appearance of the largest amplitude channel
(XL) and a greater contribution of larger conductance channels ( M and L)
to overall channel activity.

MODULATION OF CHICK AChR SINGLE CHANNEL
CHARACTERISTICS BY SUBSTANCE P

In addition to cholinergic innervation from preganglionic neurons,
lumbar sympathetic ganglion neurons receive input containing
immunoreactive SP (Hayashi et al., 1983; New and Mudge, 1986). The
peptide SP is present in a dense network of fibers surrounding many of
the principal cells within the ganglia (Garcia-Arraras, unpublished
observation) and can be released by depolarization (J. Krause & L. Role,
unpublished observation). SP depresses the release of norepinephrine
evoked by ACh in the sympathetic neurons (Valenta et al., 1987).
Previous studies indicate that SP modulates AChR function by enhancing

 

50578129