384

the rate of agonist-induced desensitization by ACh (Clapham and Neher,
1984; Role, 1984; Downing et al., 1987 and Downing and Role, in
preparation).

SP modulation of the rate of AChR desensitization is reminiscent of
results from extensive studies of desensitization of Torpedo (Huganir et
al., 1986) and muscle (Albuquerque et al., 1986; Middleton et al., 1986:
Eusebi et al., 1987) AChRs. In these systems it seems likely that the rate
of AChR desensitization is mediated by phosphorylation due to
activation of a second messenger system. In light of these findings, we
have investigated the possibility that a second messenger mechanism is
also involved in SP modulation of nicotinic AChR desensitization in
embryonic chick sympathetic neurons.

Concurrent application of ACh and SP evokes a macroscopic current
that decays at a faster rate than in response to ACh alone, reflecting an
enhancement of agonist induced desensitization (Clapham and Neher,
1984; Role, 1984; Margiotta and Berg, 1986). We wished to investigate
whether this SP-elicited enhancement of the rate of nicotinic receptor
desensitization is reflected at the microscopic single channel level, and if
this were the case, whether a second messenger-dependent mechanism
is involved.

Using the cell-attached patch clamp configuration with 7-15 pM
ACh in the pipette, we primarily observed the S and M channel types
described in ED 9-ED 11 chicks. Since we see relatively few L type
openings it is possible that L is desensitized under these recording
conditions.

The design of the experiments investigating SP modulation of chick
nicotinic AChR function is schematized in Figure 3A & B, Single channel
current activity is monitored with ACh in the pipette. SP is subsequently
applied to the remainder of the cell and changes in single channel
activity is observed. If SP is enhancing the rate of receptor
desensitization, one would expect a decrease in the frequency of opening
of ACh-activated channels and an increase in the clustering of openings.
The single channel conductance should remain unchanged as initially
described by Sakmann et al., (1980) in muscle. Also, ‘because of the high
resistance seal obtained with the cell-attached patch clamp protocol, the
channels activated by ACh in the patch of membrane are physically

50578130