Draft ~- 1/25/9)

° In California, the state government uses advertising against
advertising, with a multi-million doller, multi-media campaign to
attack the marketing of cigarettes -- not smoking itself, but the
marketing of cigarettes.

o Shoe makers are the target of crusading columnists who charge that the
advertising and marketing of gym shoes is to blame for urban crime
because it compels youngsters to rob, push drugs, even kill to get
sneakers.

o Prior to last year's Super Bowl, a so-called consumer coalition made
headlines by demanding -- unsuccessfully ~- that Nissan pull a
commercial for its 300-ZX sports car. Nissan's sin? The ad showed the
car going fast, which the watchdog group and an insurance executive
decreed to be unsafe. :

o As the people from Quaker Oats can tell you, they were pressured by
religious groups to remove Popeye the Sailor from their eds, It seems
the groups objected to Popeye’s reputation for resolving conflicts with
his fists. Zhe groups offered to drop their protests if Quaker would
feature Popeye and Bluto building shelters for the homeless in future
ads.

Folks, as columnist Dave Barry often says, "I'm not making any of this up.
Honest."

There is a common thread running through many of these attacks. It is a theme
of immediate concern to a growing number of Americans -- good health.
Americans ere increasingly health conscious, and anti-advertising activists
are using health consciousness as a club to beat advertisers over the head.

You see, according to the critics, it is advertising for tobacco -- not
smoking -- that causes cancer. Advertising for sneakers that causes violent
crime. Advertising for automobiles that causes highwey accidents.

Advertising for beer that causes alcohol abuse. Advertising for hamburger
restaurants and fried chicken that causes heart disease. We must solve these
public health problems, the critics tell us, and it can be so easy -- just get
rid of those ads!

Does it sound far-fetched? If you think so, take & look at what is happening
in the beer business. Proposals for ad restrictions, bans on sports
marketing, warning labels on products and in advertisements, movements to
restrict sales and raise taxes, even a deliberate move to equate our product
with illegal drugs such es cocaine and heroin, are issues with which we deal
daily.

The critics call our ads deceptive because the ads "glamorize” beer, They say
it's fine for us to advertise as long as we don't suggest that people enjoy
our product, and as long as we “balance” each ad with a counter-message
showing alcoholism, drunk driving deaths or domestic violence.

6869 SLLOS