Draft ~~ 1/25/91

The critics of advertising suggest that Blacks, Hispanics and other minorities
should not be marketed to; that these communities should be excluded from the
economic mainstream on the grounds that these consumers ere not smart enough
to make their own choices; that minority consumers should be denied product
choices available to everyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, Lhat is an
insidious philosophy, an elitist philosophy, a philosophy totally Jacking in
respect for the average citizen,

Here is what NAACP Executive Director Benjamin Hooks has to say to those who
attack marketing in the Black commnity: "Buried in this line of thinking,
and never really mentioned by these critics, is the rationale that Blacks are
not. capable of making their own free choices and need some guardian angels to
protect their dest interest.”

As I’ve said, it doesn't take a crystal ball to see that these phony issues
could be used against any advertiser, not just a brewer. And if recent
experience is any guide, they will be. These self-appointed protectors of
public morality have their own ideas about how we all should eat, drink,
dress, drive, work and entertain ourselves and as long as they can continue to
use advertising as a whipping boy to advance their political agenda and
generate headlines, they'll continue to do so.

kreane

Indeed, recent experience bas shown that the threat against advertising is
real and growing. Consider a few more examples:

0 In well-orchestrated publicity stunts in New York, Chicago, Dallas and
elsewhere, activists go on the attack against outdoor advertising of
tobacco and alcohol by vandalizing and destroying biliboards for the
"offending" products. Police stand by and watch but, in most cases,
take no action. The media lionize the billboard vandals as community

eroes.

0 A new "consumer group,” the Center for the Study of Commercialism,
opens its doors in Washington. Its purpose is to coordinate and focus
the efforts of the various activist groups attacking advertising of a
variety of disfavored products.

° Activist groups in Washington have stepped up their efforts to build
anti-advertising coalitions to pressure Congress and other policy
makers. A new coalition to lobby for mandatory health warnings in
advertising (a bill considered a de facto ad ban by many in the
industry) attracts support from such mainstream organizations as the
American Medical Association and the PTA. -Many Hispanic community
organizations join a campaign against Hispanic-targeted fast food,
alcohol and tobacco marketing. The American Automobile Association
foundation and the Surgeon General of the United States lend their
names and prestige to anti-advertising campaigns.

L869 8SLLOS