Draft —- 1/25/91

P --_ I

Advertising has evolved through the centuries from a simple tool of commerce
to a vital and visible part of our culture. From handbills to television to
blimps, advertisements reflect the concerns, interests, contemporary trends
and desires of our society.

Advertising benefits both buyers and sellers -- in a word, everyone.
Advertising supports our free and independent press. Advertising brings us
sports and entertainment in person, on radio and on TV. Advertising helps us
make informed consumer choices and stimulates the market competition that
leads to more product choices, better quality and lower prices.

But today, advertising is under attack. According to public opinion polls,
much of the general public has come to regard advertising as a nuisance at
best, and as a deceptive persuader at worst. Critics have accused advertising
of encouraging or even causing a long list of social 11s -- from high
cholesterol to alcohol abuse to urban crime. As a result of these
accusations, some -- even some public officials -- have called for drastic
restriction of the right to advertise.

Mike Roarty -- executive vice president for corporate marketing at
Anheuser-Busch -- described the situation ina speech last year to the

American Advertising Federation. Here's a lengthy but insightful excerpt from
Mike's remarks:

ae aenank

"Advertising Under Attack”
Excerpts from remarks by Mike Roarty to
the American Advertising Federation

ow

Advertising is under attack and our very freedom to advertise is threatened.
Social critics of both the left and the right heve focused on advertising as
the cause of a never-ending list of national iils.

Their all-purpose prescription for society’s problems is a simple one: Just
get rid of those ads! And lest any of you become complacent, let me emphasize
that we're not talking here just about beer advertising -- we're talking about
Bll advertising. All advertising is under the gun, and your product or your
client may well be next.

Consider a few recent news stories:
° In Finland, a court banned a McDonald's ad showing 2 youngster who is
upset over moving, but who smiles when he spots a McDonald's near his

new home. The court found the ad deceptive, saying it suggests that
Big Macs can replace friends.

-1-

 

7369 SLLOS