Draft -- 1/25/91

position attacks on advertising as the attacks on consumer rights and
on free speech they truly are, rather than as the public health
crusades advertising critics would like the public to believe them to
be.

To succeed, this Campaign for Consumer Choice must fulfill four key criteria.
It must be:

°

PRESTIGIOUS. The guiding force and support for the campaign must come
from the top leaders of the advertising community -- the major media,
the major agencies, the major advertisers and the major advertising
associations all must lend their active support. As an essential first
step, a small "core" committee of top leaders from each of these areas
should be assembled, with a first priority of recruiting colleagues to
join in the effort. To assure the kind of comprehensive participation
needed, the campaign should be an ad hoc effort, separate from any
existing organization but encompassing all of the major entities in
advertising.

BROADLY BASED. Utilizing contributed media ina fashion similar to the
Drug Free America effort, the campaign must reach out through all media
at both the national and the local/regtonal level. Media efforts
should be supported at both the national and local levels by
appropriate publicity and grassroots outreach (speakers, publicity
tours, news releases, etc.).

IMPACTFUL. Calling on the donated creative efforts of the best and
brightest in the advertising business (perhaps with all campaign
supporters donating to support production and out of pocket costs), the
Campaign should encompass numerous creative approaches. The campaign
for advertising must be the best advertising in America.

POSITIVE. The purpose of the campaign is not to answer the critics or
defend the right to advertise this product or that product. Rather,
the purpose is to remind Americans that free speech is an important
right and advertising ts an essential component of free speech.

- Not a day goes by that we aren't helped by advertising.
Advertising is nothing more or less than consumer
-- vital information about what you need, where to
get it, and what's the best price. Without that information,
our lives would be considerably more difficult.

- In fact, advertising is a key reason that American consumers
enjoy one of the world's highest standards of living and pay a
Yower percentage of income for it than citizens of almost any
other country. We find a broad selection of quality brands and
products every time we go to the store thanks to a vigorous
free market system with strong competition for our consumer
dollars. Advertising and marketing drive that competition, and
we are the winners. ~

@669 8LLOS

-7-