wb Ser me ho bets 1 Mo ' Pe ee be wee Tee hoe ee

Draft -- 1/25/91

° Recent judicial decisions, most notably the Posadas decision by the
Supreme Court of the United States, appear to have given the government
increased latitude to ban or restrict advertising even in instances
when the advertising is clearly truthful, non-deceptive and on behalf
of legal products.

In today’s environment, according to Hal Shoup of the American Assoctation of
Advertising Agencies, “Advertising 1s susceptible to attack because of its
high visibility. But out of sight does not mean you have taken care of the
problem, Indeed, restricting or banning advertising would create more
problems by allowing government to stifle free speech and free choice."

So what has the advertising community -- those who buy, create and place
advertising as well as consumers who benefit from advertising ~- done to fight
this growing threat to speech and choice? There are two answers: both
“plenty” and "not enough."

° Advertisers whose products and campaigns have come directly under
- attack have responded vigorously -- both in publie forums and in the —-
policy arena. This kind of response is essential. However, it also is
defensive in nature, and while a vigorous defense of a particular
product or advertisement may defuse opposition, it does not build
support for advertising in general.

0 Advertisers and their associations also have attempted to use
advertising in a constructive fashion to address societal problems,
thereby showing what a positive force for social good advertising can
be. For example, the beer industry has mounted its own campaigns to
promote responsible consumption, and pan-industry campaigns Tike the
Partnership for a Drug-Free America and public service efforts by the
Advertising Council have been very effective.

0 Advertising association and industry representatives like the 4A's, the
ANA and the AAF have effectively battled the critics in the halls of
Washington and in state legislative and regulatory chambers.

However, as worthy as these efforts have been, they are no longer enough; the
time has come to do more. The time has come to move off of the defensive and
to take to the American people the case for advertising and commercial free
speech. Specifically, the time has come to utilize on behalf of advertising
the most powerful tool advertisers possess -- namely, advertising itself.

A Campaign for Consumer Choice, as it might be called, would be a broad-based,
multi-media effort to remind American consumers what advertising does for
them, why they need advertising in their lives, and why banning or restricting
advertising would hurt them. Strategically, the campaign would attempt to:

° shift public opinion of advertising from “something that clutters up my
favorite TV show" to "something that helps me as a consumer;”

oO build acceptance of the notion that, in a democracy, commercial speech
4s and must be free speech;

-6-

6869 SLLOS