Draft -- 1/25/91

Of course, that's the most radical approach. A more “conservative” plan --
now before Congress in the form of the Kennedy/Gore bill -- would simply force
us to devote seven to fifteen seconds of every beer commercial to telling
people about the bad things that can happen to them if they abuse the product.

How many of you would continue to advertise under those kinds of constraints?
Perhaps none of you -- and of course, that's the real agenda of those pushing
ad warnings -- to drive us out of advertising altogether without doing
anything effective to combat alcohol abuse.

But it’s not merely the content of our ads that is under atteck, Our media
plans also are on the firing line. “Get beer out of sports broadcasts,” the
critics demand. "Stop using sports to sell beer to youngsters.”

Of course, irrational charges Iike that ignore the fact that brewers spend
most of their media dollars on sports because sports is the most adult

programming available. Look at the adult audience demographics for sports
like golf, baseball, football and basketball. All are significantly higher

than the population as a whole.

Look at the products advertised during sports events: beer, automobiles, life
insurance, credit cards, shaving razors, auto parts. If this is the medium
for reaching children, why haven't any children’s products found their way in?

Those are the facts, but our critics never let facts get in the way of a good
opinion. For example, some have said that children see 100,000 beer
commercials by the age of 18 and use that distortion to call for ad
restrictions. It doesn't take a math expert to figure that child would have

to see 17 beer commercials a day, every day, for 16 years, to see 100,000
commercials!

And again, let me emphasize, it is not our product alone that is under
attack. The critics have focused their sights on advertising and marketing
and will seize every opportunity to paint even the most mundane parts of our
business as an insidious plot.

For example, when did market segmentation -- so-called “target marketing" +-
become a dirty word?

What is wrong with picking out any segment of the market -- be it Blacks,
Hispanics, men, women, city dwellers, farmers, yuppies, Texans, you name it --
and tailoring your message to their tastes and needs?

What's wrong with that? Wot a thing, that’s what. Market segmentation is
just plain good business. After all, you wouldn't advertise cosmetics in
Field & Stream or baseball mitts in Eorbes.

Indeed, if there is something insidious in this debate over target marketing,
it is emanating from the camp of the ad banners and the billboard painters.

9869 SLL0S