Oraft —- 1/25/91

o Activist organizations also step up their efforts to reach "outside the
Beltway" to organize grassroots anti-advertising campaigns on the local
level through publication of "how to" guides and videos.

° A CBS affiliate TV station in Salt Lake City, tn an apparent bow to
religious pressure, announces a "voluntary" ban of focal beer
advertising.

In evaluating the threat against advertising, it 1s important to note that
none of the efforts described above are directed against advertising which is
untruthful or deceptive. Rather, these are campaigns against truthful and
legitimate advertising of legal products ~~ products hundreds of milltons of
Americans freely choose to purchase every day, but of which one vocal minority
or another does not approve. It also is important to bear in mind that the
list of products of which these groups do not approve -- and whose advertising
they have attacked ~- is a lengthy one. Most prepared foods, meat and dairy
products, many kinds of children's toys, restaurants, soft drinks, breakfast
cereals, even Girl Scout Cookies are included.

Disturbingly, these attacks on advertising take place In a public policy and
public opinion environment which appears to be increasingly receptive to calls

for restriction of commercial free speech. In the area of public opinion, for
example,

° A 1989 Roper poll found that 57% of Americans regard TV advertising as
a nuisance because it clutters programming and 74% feel that
advertising encourages people to use products they don't need.

° A 1989 survey by Opinion Research Corporation found that 80% of those
polled consider advertising to be a "deceptive persuader.”
o A 1990 survey by Advertising Age magazine found that an overwhelming

majority of Americans support the so-called Gore-Kennedy bil) to
require mandatory health warnings in alcohol beverage advertising.

And, in the area of public policy:

° Many observers consider passage of a federal ban on tobacco marketing
likely in the near future.

° A House Commerce subcommittee held hearings on the Gore-Kennedy
advertising bill last year; the bill will be reintroduced in 1991.

o Advertising restriction has become an issue on the state level. In the
state of Washington, for example, the state liquor contro) board 1s
considering a censorship plan which, among other things, would
specifically prohibit the use of any identifiable spokesperson in beer
advertising, would forbid showing bar scenes in beer advertising and
you's outlaw the printing of beer brand names on jackets, shirts and

ats.

 

8869 SLLOS