ROUND TABLE

mere semantics. Ignoring apparently awkward
findings is likely, in the long run, to be as harmful as
Overinterpretine those that seem to fit. Both under.
mune the general credibility of those from whom
advice may be sought. No-one should underplay
the difficulties of switching and then sticking 10 2
dict an wiuch tat accounss for +39% of roral
energy intake-—the WHO Expert Committee's
Suggested definiion of “moderation”. Such
changes have undoubtedly been achieved in some
groups under regular surveillance over short pe-
nods, but long-term dietary compliance in the mul-
uple risk factor intervention trial may have been
less than intended and an earher American study
also ran into trouble because of poor compliance
(11). These difficulties are much better acknow!-
edged and grappled with than swept under the car-
pet. The possibility, at least, that moderate alcohol
consumption reduces the risk of IHD is one that
poses obvious difficulties, but there is no point in
pretending that it docs not exist.

Thirdly, what are the advantages and disadvan.
tages of making recommendations about healthy
living in general rather than about IHD in partic-
ular? It is a far bet that losing weight 15 a more
immediate personal goal for most prople, including
middie-aged meh, than avoiding THD. A reduction
in fat intake (along with the pursuit of physical
activity) is common to both purposes and it seems
short-sighted not to make the most of the particu.
larly strong motivation towards weight control,
difficult though even this is to capitalize upon.

Finally, the debate must certainly proceed with-
Our secrecy or intripue. In its issue of 3 July 1983,
the Sundar Times laid bare a series of events within
the Department of Health's advisory machinery
which, even if they were only half trae, would be
deplorable. In 1979, the Government set up a
National Advisory Committee on Nutrition Educa-
tion. A subcommittee was appointed to recom-
mend nutritional guidelines for health education in
Britain many of which are, of course, concerned
with IHD. Besides making specific roposals, the
report *pparently recognized the difficulties the
food industry would face and consequently sug.
gested a prolonged time-scale over which changes
could be made. By all accounts, the subcommittee’s
report was well received by the parent committee.
However, the industry apparently dishked much of
what it read and seems to have pot the Deparment
TO suppress of at any rate delay the report.? If'so, the

‘ow published and avzilable from Health Educa.

tion Lounel., “8 New Gxford Street. London WC),
England

yd

Department should think again, quickly. It is pre-
cisely this sort of occurrence that will slow the
Progress now under way towards agrecd puliuics,

1, DOLL.R. & PETO.R. Bretsd ertdital journal, 2: 1525
(1976)

2 TOWNSEND, j. L. & MEADE, T. W. Journal of epidemi-
alogy and conmmmity bealth, 33: 243 (1979),

3. Journal American Medical Association, 248: 1465 (1982),

4. Exropean heart journal, 4: 141 (1983).

5. WELIN. L. ET AL Lanes, 1: 1087 (1983).

6. ALFREDSSON, L. & AHLBOM, A. Briziz medical journal,
286: 1931 (1983).

1, Prevention of coronary beart diseate. Geneva, World
Health Organization, 1982 (Technical Repon 678).

B. Lanrer, 1: 846 (1982).

9. Journal of the Royal College of Physicians, 10: 213 (1976).

10. Prevention of orterral disease in general practice. London,
Royal College of General Practitioners, 198).

11. Cireudarion, 37 (suppl. 1): 1 (1968).

Norman M. Kaplan

— Risk factor intervention
does work

Professor Oliver uses data from the US multiple risk
factor intervention trial as evidence for his argue
ment that mass interventions to reduce risk factors
have not worked and ought to be given up.

The data from this trial, in fact, show just the
opposite (7). The rates of coronary mortality were
much reduced in both groups, the half given special
interventions and the half returned to their usual
sources of medical cate. The desipners of the study
assumed that the risk factors among the “usual
care"’ group would change very little, preserving
the statistical likelihood thar 187 coronary deaths
would occur among them. They calculated that a
much greater reduction in isk factors among the
“special interventions” group would reduce their
projected number of coronary deaths to 137, thus
providing a 27% difference that would be statisti-
cally significant.

What then happened proved that risk factor
intervention does work, contrary to Oliver's inter:
pretation. Since the American public and thetr phy-
sicians have so widely accepted the value of stop-

Ce
Or Kaplan 1s with the Deparment of internal Medicine.
University of Texas Southwestern Medics! School, Dal-
las TX. USA

q