t 12/28/96 13:47:42 = Enhanced 6 > np Page §

" 12/20/86 FRI 12:02 FAX 312 861 2200 58 58 KIRKLAND ELLIS ons

 

  

 

ey ye hat et tr rr so wont a .
Charlie Gonmers believes that some of the contract work .
bas gone too far afield -~ "It soons to bave a life of its

wn." .-He recently found that the massive, expendive inhalation
Ateine t being conducted at Wiorobiologicad Associates was not °-

  
      
 
     

   

      

   
  
  
  

going forward jn areas which he understood it would be by thie
i ‘time and that it was doing some things thet aurprised him, ‘:,""
Witpy. Sommers is the Chairman of the Scientific Advisory Board. °
is fe will lead the SAB later this month in a review th nee
‘atlitoontract work and also will raise the CNS tnsue ary

Lape sof tints iy Sdi whe at ip
a se ‘is be for the SAB might cone
Bea

bs

 

  
     
  
 
  
     
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
 
    
   
    

  

 
  

 

      

kg tM EM enitinac *

     

Ag ‘4m ponaible that a new role J
iss current. dieu one Ge
Nolte Sean ERR et TSENG BONES ETOER RADIO GIR
onde the budget ia tpprovad and the BAB hag been sounded out |
iby Add and Charlie Souners, who will scck their cooperation ™
vin ostablishing better techaiques and practices at CTR i:

ikeonsistent with the best posalble delence, ‘it is envisioned |
Hitthat the dolentific Lieison Coumittes wilh be conyehed. “yard
(uimhat Committee, an you knov, has a| muiber. of disciplines and
‘attitudes represented including research and developuent dt a

        
          
     
  
  
  

  

    
  
 
  
    

    
 

 

      
  
     
  

      
 
  

 
 
 
 

 

   

 
  
   
   
    
 
  
   
  
 

 
 

 
 
 
  

 

iy he proper place to take up the general questi ‘of: what } :
‘Laud of research thé ‘industry should be into through ‘CTR iain
Sor elsewhere, }-It,can @leo deal with the ineus of contract ;
AGresearch yoraus grant research, | {4 y
Br MUP 2 fo Chak HERI Gad:
fe indust old ha. arid_OTR-would-lod ho-dde as
Mi wohich were being associated with sucking, “iThore Was even
na suggestion by our political spokesmen that.if a harmful 4}
Lrelewent turned up the industry would try to foot.st out.
Sudnete) The manufactirer “nas kh duty to know its “product, “764!
ory.
ah independent scientists constitute ‘a place where the:
eiietate of the art. # constantly being updated. j/-theoretic
ay BAB ts ‘sho “the way in a highly com Lox. field's

 

public relations, legal and one CEO (Curt Judge). (HIt int
ip origina ubtto-reiations
: ee pBcientific ‘Adv: ‘Board composed of highly sopuseD he ,
Bi the“prs

  

   
     
      

 

a s us:
SA ie another poiitionl feed Yor research, Recently 't
“tik auggested that OTR or industry research should enable
auaeequick responses to new ‘developaests in. the propaganda Of,
Favid aticmmoking groups. “For ‘exauple, “CTR or someone,
the able retut the suggestion that suckers ‘suffor, fro
peculiar digeage, as widely alleged in the press some Sew ys
monthe ago. VA ‘properly designed research effort should en
the need for instant response on subjects of. public intor
ithe moking and health controversy.” ¥inally—-the indust
Fesesroh effort has included spec
eersoientinte en retin odtore Rho gh
Vive ee EDORGON In Jawsuite or in a legislative’
yep, matters anc fore should be considered in
GAs 3e: should do. Urdaitertt

side bd afte iat
a ie Be

  
 
 

 

   
    

    
  

  
  
     
    
 

  
 

 

  

       
 
   
 
 

       

      
  
   

  

  

   
 

aearch the

  
 
 

3

etd Hie 4
Sea,

ssve 69075 Sie