PHILIP MORRIS MANAGEMENT CORP. INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENGE

129 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10017

 

TO: File DATE: December 8, 1998
FROM: Claire Carcich
SUBJECT: Minnesota Disclosure Statute

This memorandum summarizes the existing Minnesota disclosure statute
(Minn. Stat. Chapter 461 Section 461.17) relating to cigarettes.

« Each manufacturer of cigarette products sold in Minnesota shall provide

the Commissioner of Health (“Commissioner”) with an annual report, in a
form and at a time specified by the Commissioner, identifying for each
brand any of the following substances present in detectable levels in the

product in its unburned and burned state:

ammonia or any compound of ammonia;
arsenic;

cadmium;

. formaldehyde; and

. lead.

PoP we

« Tobacco Substance Reporting Forms (“Form”) were sent to the tobacco
companies (See attached letter dated October 1998 and enclosed form)
indicating that the completed forms must be returned to the Minnesota
Department of Health (“Department”) by February 15, 1999. The
Department requests voluntary submission of the protocol used for testing.

¢ The Minnesota Disclosure statute expressly states that the Form is not a
rule! for purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act (Minn. Stat. Chapter
14, including section 14.386).

* Reports filed are public data. [Note: Under the Minnesota Government
Data Practices Act, trade secret information? collected by a state agency is
classified as not accessible to the public. See Minn. Stat. Chapter 13, Section
13.37,]

2099992202

‘ Rule means every agency statement of general applicability and future effect, including amendments, suspensions, and repeals
of rules, adopted io implement or make specific the law enforced or administered by that agency or to govern its organization or
procedure. According to section 14.386 of the Administrative Procedure Act, “if a statute provides that a rule is exempt from
Chapter [4, and section 14.386 does nat apply to the rule, the rule has the force of law unless the context of the statute delegating
the rulemaking authority makes clear that the rule does not have the force of law.”

* Trade secret information means government data (collected, created, received, maintained or disseminated by any state agency,
political subdivision or statewide system) including a formuta, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique or process
(1) that was supplied by the affected individual or organization, (2) that is the subject of efforts by the individual or organization
that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy, and (3) that derives independent economic value, actual or
potential, from not being generally known to, and not being readily ascertainable by proper means by, other persons who can obtain
economic yalue from its disclosure or use.