Prac pedi Acad. Sci. USA
Vov$8. pp. 8530-3533, October 1991
Biochemistry

Baculovirus-mediated expression of human apolipoprotein E in
Manduca sexta larvae generates particles that bind to the low

density lipoprotein receptor

Daniet G. Gretcu*, STEPHEN L. SturLey*, Paut D. Friesent. Nancy E. Beckacet,

AND ALAN D. Attre*$

“Departments of Biochemistry and Comparative Biosciences, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53706: ‘Institute of Molecular Virology and
Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madisoa, Madison, W1 53706, and #Department of Entomology. University of California-Riverside,

Riverside, CA 92521

Communicated by Donald F. Steiner, July 1, 1991 (received for review March 18, 1991)

ABSTRACT — Human apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a ligand
for the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor and mediates the
catabolism of several classes of lipoprotein particles, Binding of
apoE to the LDL receptor requires association of apoE, with
lipid in a vesicle or a lipoprotein particle. Because of this
requirement, purified apoE or apoE derived directly from
bacterial expression systems does not bind to the LDL receptor.
To overcome this problem and to facilitate analysis of apoE
structure, recombinant baculoviruses containing the human
apoE cDNA fused to the polyhedrin promoter of Autographa
californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus were constructed, The
recombinant viruses were used to infect larvae of the tobacco
horaworm Manduca sexta in vivo. High levels of lipoprotein
particles containing human apoE were present in the he-
molymph of infected larvae. In contrast to apoE produced by
recombinant baculovirus-infected insect cells in vitro, these
particles were excellent ligands for the LDL receptor.

 

Human apolipoprotein E (apoE) is one of two known ligands
for the low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor (1). It provides
the specificity required for the receptor-mediated clearance
of certain classes of lipoproteins. Genetic variation at the
apoE locus that results in defective receptor binding is
associated with hyperlipoproteinemia and accelerated coro-
nary heart disease (1).

Although apoE is water-soluble when stripped from its
lipid milieu, binding of apoE to the LDL receptor requires
association of apoE with lipid in a vesicle or a lipoprotein
particle (2). Thus, previous studies relating the structure of
apoE to its function have relied upon denaturation followed
by in vitro reconstitution of apoE with lipid (3). An alternative
approach to the production of biologically active apoE would
be to express this protein in a system that facilitates lipid
association in vivo.

In vertebrates, neutral lipids are transported in association
with lipoprotein particles. This process is conserved in in-
sects, such as the tobacco hornworm Manduca sexta (4, 5).
Insect lipoproteins, like their mammalian counterparts, have
a core of nonpolar neutral lipids surrounded by a monolayer
of amphiphilic lipids (6). The insect apolipoprotein, apoli-
pophorin III, has an amphipathic a-helical secondary struc-
ture (7), a motif suggested to play a role in the lipid binding
of mammalian apolipoproteins such as apoE (8).

In insect larvae, the fat body is the site of synthesis of
hemolymph lipoproteins (9) and is also a target of infection by
baculoviruses (10). Therefore, we hypothesized that this in
vivo system could be exploited to produce recombinant
lipoprotein particles containing the products of heterologous

 

The publication costs of this article were defrayed in part by page charge
payment. This article must therefore be hereby marked “advertisement”
in accordance with 18 U.S.C. $1734 solely to indicate this fact.

Oran

apolipoprotein genes. Such recombinant lipoproteins might
have similar biological properties to native mammalian lipo-
proteins. In the present study, recombinant baculoviruses
possessing a human apoE cDNA in place of the polyhedrin
gene were constructed. After infection of M. sexta larvae,
high concentrations of human apoE were secreted into the
hemolymph in a lipid-associated and biologically active form.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Production of Recombinant Baculoviruses. A 1.2-kilobase-
pair (kbp) EcoRI~HindIIl fragment encoding the apoE-3
cDNA from plasmid pHES3 (11) was tailed with BamHI
linkers (Promega) and cloned into the BamHI site of pAcYM1
(12), yielding pAcE3. An Aart II-Hinfl 1.1-kbp fragment
corresponding to the apoE-3V cDNA from pHAE813 (13)
was ligated into the Sma I site of pBluescript M13+ (Strat-
agene), An 8-bp BamHI linker (Promega) was then inserted
at the EcoRV site of this plasmid to produce p52-Bam. The
1.1-kbp BamHI] fragnent from p52-Bam was ligated into the
BamHI site of pAcYM1, yielding pAcE3V. The resulting
plasmids were cotransfected with the wild-type baculovirus
genome [Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus
(AcNPV)] into Spodoptera frugiperda Sf-21 cells. Recombi-
nant viruses encoding apoE-3 and apoE-3V (AcNPV-E3 and
AcNPV-E3V, respectively) were selected, plaque-purified,
and titered as described (14, 15).

Infection of Cultured Insect Cells and Insect Larvae, Viruses
were used to infect 4 x 10° Sf-21 cells per dish ata multiplicity
of infection of 10. SF-900 (GIBCO) medium (2 ml) was
harvested from infected cells 42 hr after infection. Fourth-
instar larvae (day 2; average mass, 0.5 g; reared as described
(16)] were injected with 1 x 10° plaque-forming units (pfu) of
recombinant virus and administered a booster with 5 x 10°
pfu the following day. Hemolymph was collected 6 days after
infection and diluted 1:2 (vol/vol) with phosphate-buffered
saline (PBS; 150 mM NaCi/2.8 mM KCI/1.5 mM KH,
PO,/6.5 mM Na2HPO,, pH 7.4) containing § mM glutathione,
0.002% phenylmethylsuifonyl fluoride, and 0.3 mg of benz-
amidine per ml (PBSI). Media and hemolymph samples were
subjected to sodium dodecyl sulfate /10% polyacrylamide gel
electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE) (17). Immunoblotting (18) was
performed with anti-human apoE monoclonal antibodies 1E
and 13E (19) and alkaline phosphatase-conjugated goat anti-
rabbit IgG (Sigma).

 

Abbreviations: apoE. apolipoprotein E: LDL. low density tipopro-
tein; ACNPY, Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus;
Myr.-PtdCho, dimynistoy! phosphatidylcholine.

§To whom reprint requests should be addressed at: Deparment of
Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison. 420 Henry Mail,
Madison, WI 53706.