28184

Oltactory Bulb
Hippocampus.
Cerebellum

Frontal Cortex
Stiatum

Colliculus
Midprain

©
s
a
a
a

 

 

    

 

 

B Olfactory Bulb T cells
33 23
g 2B»
g a ga 5
f= 223
e238 S23 &
RE ae23
18+ + 1 & ++ 8
suparshit Be j Wd jaa supershitt
NFATp 3 CARP | oat NFATp
h cs. I
lane 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

Fic. 3. A, Western analysis of NFATp in extracts from subregions of
mouse brain. Several anatomical regions of the mouse brain were dis-
sected, homogenized, and analyzed by Western blotting with an anti-
serum against a peptide of NFATp. A prominent doublet (filled arrow-
head) was labeled in extracts feom the spleen (lene 7) and olfactory bulb
(long 2), Fainter signals were also present in samples from hippocam-
pus (Jane 5) and cerebellum (lane 6). The positions of protein molecular
mass standards (kDa) are marked at the deft. B, antiserum against a
peptide of NFATp supershifts the NFATp-DNA complex from olfactory
bulb and from T cells. Ammonium sulfate-precipitated eytosolic extracts
were prepared from olfactory bulb (lanes 1-4) and from the CL7W2 T
call line Uanes 5-8), and their binding to the NFAT oligonucleotide was
assessed by electrophoretic mobility shift assay in the absence (lanes I
and 5) or presence (lanes 2 and 6) of antiserum. As with PC12 cell
extracts, the antiserum selectively recognized the NEATp-DNA complex
in olfactory bulb (lane 1, bottom filled arrowhead), shifting it toa slower
migrating complex (Jane 2, upper filled arrowhead), but did not affect
the mobility of a second complex (lanes 1 and 2, open arrowhead). The
specificity of the supershift was demonstrated when the antiserum was
preincubated with its corresponding peptide (Janes 3 and 7) or with an
irrelevant peptide (/anes 4 and 8), Antiserum alone did not bind appre-
ciably to the probe (Jane 9).

~97 kDa whose protein-DNA complex migrated more slowly
than the NFATp-DNA complex (upper panel, lane 7, top band}.
However, the complex formed from this 97-kDa fraction was not
supershifted by the antipeptide antiserum against NFATp, and
formation of the complex was competed by all the mutated
NFAT oligonucleotides (data not shown), suggesting that the
97-kDa protein was unrelated to NFATp. These results from
renaturation experiments complement the Western analysis
and identify a 120-kDa PC12 cell protein that is capable of
binding specifically to the NFAT site and is recognized by an-
tisera against several distinct regions of NFATp.

The observation that NFATp was expressed in a neuronal
cell line led us to test whether it was also present in the brain.
Western analysis of protein from several regions of the mouse
brain, with the same antiserum as above, showed that a rela-
tively high level of immunoreactive protein was present in the
olfactory bulb (Fig. 3A, lane 3, arrowhead). The sample from
olfactory bulb exhibited a doublet of labeled bands with appar-
ent molecular masses of about 120 kDa and more diffuse label-
ing extending upward to about 150 kDa, which comigrated with
the labeled protein in a spleen extract (lane 1), Labeling of the

Expression of NFATp in PC12 Cells and in Neurons *

doublet and of the associated diffuse band was completely
blocked when the antipeptide antiserum was preincubated
with its cognate peptide. Fainter signals in the same range of
apparent molecular weights were detected in extracts from
other brain regions including frontal cortex, hippocampus, and
cerebellum (lanes 2, 5, and 6), suggesting that NFATp might be
present in a small subpopulation of cells in these regions. The
antiserum labeled additional minor protein bands in brain
samples whose relation to T cell NFATp is not clear at present.

To determine whether the protein from olfactory bulb was
functional in DNA binding, an extract from murine olfactory
bulb was incubated with the labeled murine NFAT oligonucleo-
tide, and DNA binding was assessed in an electrophoretic mo-
bility shift assay (Fig. 3B). The band pattern obtained with
alfactory bulb extracts resembled that obtained with PC12 cell
extracts in that two protein-DNA complexes were formed (lane
1), a lower complex that could be specifically supershifted by
antiserum against NFATp (lanes 2-4, filled arrowhead) and an
upper complex that did not react with the antiserum (lanes 24,
open arrowhead). Oligonucleotide competition patterns exhib-
ited by the olfactory bulb and PC12 cell extracts were also
similar with formation of both lower and upper bands competed
by the unlabeled NFAT and M1 oligonucleotides, partially com-
peted by the M2 oligonucleotide, and not competed by the M3
oligonucleotide (data not shown). Thus the olfactory bulb pro-
tein is similar to T cell NFATp and to the PC12 cell protein in
molecular weight, in its binding to the IL-2 promoter NFAT
site, and in its recognition by antiserum against NFATp.

We have examined the cellular localization of NFATp by im-
munohistochemical staining of tissue sections through olfac-
tory epithelium and olfactory bulb. The most evident staining is
in olfactory receptor neurons, their pvocesses, and the regions
of their synaptic contacts in the glomeruli of the olfactory bulb
(Fig. 4). The labeling is specific, since it is absent when the
primary antiserum against NFATp is incubated with its corre-
sponding peptide. The staining experiments indicate that the
immunoreactive NFATp detected in the olfactory bulb by West-
ern analysis and the NFAT» activity demonstrated in electro-
phoretic mobility shift assays are derived largely from the proc-
esses of olfactory receptor neurons. Further studies using
immunohistochemical staining will show whether a subset of
neurons in the olfactory bulb also contains NFATp at lower
levels and will provide a more sensitive way to detect NFATp
and to determine its cellular localization in other brain regions.

DISCUSSION

The discovery of NFAT» in the brain is unexpected in view of
a previous report (22) that proteins in brain extracts showed no
binding to an NFAT oligonucleotide. However, that study used
an NFAT site from the human IL-2 promoter as the oligonu-
cleotide probe, and recent work has shown that the binding of
NFAT» to this site is contingent upon its association with AP-1
proteins (36). The NFAT site of the murine UL-2 promoter, on
the other hand, binds NFATp independently of other proteins
(36) and thus provides a more direct assay for the presence of
NFAT». The inability to detect constitutive transcription from
a multimerized NFAT site in the brains of transgenic mice (22)
may also reflect the requirement for AP-1 proteins, which are
critical for transcriptional activation mediated through the
{L-2 promoter NFAT site (9, 18).

‘The identification of NFATp in PC12 cells and in olfactory
receptor neurons raises the question whether the neuronal pro-
tein is identical to the T cell pratein or is a closely related form
of NFATp. Since alternative splicing of the NFATp mRNA tran-
script has heen detected in T cells (18), the possibility must be
considered that PC12 cells and olfactory neurons express spe-
cific neuronul isoforms of NFATp. However, recent data show