Tue Jovrvat or Btotocican Cuemtetry
© 1994 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

Vol. 269, No. 45, Issue of November 11, pp. 28181-28186, 1994
Printed in USA.

Expression of the Transcription Factor NFATp in a Neuronal Cell
Line and in the Murine Nervous System*

(Received for publication, March 30, 1994, and in revised form, August 8, 1994)

Andrew M. Hoi, Jugnu Jain§1, Anjana Rao§t, and Patrick G. Hogan:|

From the EDepartment of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, the §Division of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Dana
Farber Cancer Institute, and the Department of Patholagy, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115

The transcription factor NFATp, which has a central
role in cytokine gene induction inT cells, was previously
thought to be expressed only in T cells and other im-
mune cells. Here we report that NFATp is also expressed
in the rat PC12 pheochromocytoma cell line and in the
murine nervous system. Antisera against T cell NFATp
recognize proteins of similar apparent molecular weight
in T cells, PC12 cells, and murine olfactory bulb. The
immunoreactive proteins from PC12 cells and from ol-
factory bulb bind to an NFAT site of the murine inter-
leukin-2 promoter with the same specificity as T cell
NFATp. Immunohistochemical staining localizes NFATp
to neurons, specifically to olfactory receptor neurons
and to their terminals in the olfactory bulb. The pres-
ence of NFATp in the nervous system suggests that it has
arole in the transcription of specific neuronal genes in
response to increases in cytosolic calcium.

ee

The transcription factor NFATp is essential for transcription
of cytokine genes in activated T cells (1-7). NFATp cooperates
with Fos and Jun family proteins in the nucleus of stimulated
T cells to activate transcription of the interleukin-2 (IL-2)! gene
(8-11) and acts in concert with these or other transcription fac-
tors to increase transcription of other cytokine genes (3, 4, 6, 12).
NFAT p was originally identified as the “preexisting” component
of the inducible nuclear factor NFAT (8, 13-15); its activation in
T cells depends on a caleium/calmodulin/caleineurin signaling
pathway and is sensitive to cyclosporin A and FK506 (15, 16).
NEATp is a phosphoprotein of apparent molecular mass ~120
kDa (11, 15, 17), which exists in T cells as several isoforms aris-
ing from alternatively spliced mRNA transcripts (18).

‘A nuclear factor similar or identical to NFATp has also been
identified in B ceils (2, 19-21). Extracts of unstimulated B cells
contain factors that bind to the distel NFAT site of the IL-2
promoter and form a complex on this site with Fos and Jun
family proteins (19). As in T cells, the activation of NFAT is
initiated by an increase in cytoplasmic calcium and is pre-
vented by treatment of the cells with cyclosporin A (20, 21).
Antisera against T cell NFATp recognize the protein-DNA com-
plexes from B cells” and identify proteins comparable in appar-
ent molecular weight to T cell NFATp in Western analysis of B
cell proteins.’ Recent work has documented the presence of

* This work was supported in part by National Institutes of Health
Grant CA4!471 {to A. R.}. The costs of publication of this article were
defrayed in part by the payment of page charges. This article must
therefore be hereby marked “advertisement” in accordance with 18
U.S.™ Section 1734 solely to indieate this fact.

| To v-hom correspondence should be addressed. Tel.: 617-432-1767;
Fax: 617-734-7587.

! The abbreviation used is: IL, interleukin.

2 N. RB. Yaseen, d. Park, A. L. Maizel, A. Rao, and 8. Sharma, unpub-
lished data.

3D, Z. Wang and A. Rao, unpublished data.

 

NFAT? in certain other cells of the immune system."

There has been little reason to think that NFATp is ex-
pressed in brain or other nonlymphoid tissues. Electrophoretic
mobility shift assays did not detect proteins that bind to an
NFAT oligonucleotide in brain or liver extracts (22). In trans-
genic mice, expression of a reporter gene under control of a
multimer of the NFAT site was restricted almost entirely to
activated T cells and B cells and was not apparent in brain (22).
On the other hand the components of the caleium/calmodulin/
caleineurin pathway that activates NFATp in T cells are abun-
dantly expressed in the brain (23, 24), Likewise, Fos, Jun, and
other transcription factors that combine with NFAT» in T cells
are induced in neural cells by growth factors and other physi-
ological stimuli (25-29).

Here we have reexamined the possibility that NFATp is ex-
pressed in neural cells. We present evidence that NFATp is
expressed by the PC12 cell line, a rat adrenal chromaffin tumor
cell line (30) that has been used in studies of intracellular
signaling, transcriptional regulation, and neuronal differentia-
tion. Further, we demonstrate that NFATp is present at rela-
tively high levels in the murine olfactory bulb, largely in ter-
minals of olfactory receptor neurons, and may be expressed at
lower levels in certain other regions of the murine central nerv-
ous system.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Cell Culture—PC12 cells were maintained in L.15CO2 medium with
7% horse serum, 7% fetal calf serum, and other additives as described
(31). Murine T cell clones Ar-6 and CLL7W2 were grown as described
(32).

Antisera—The principal antiserum used in these experiments was
affinity-purified antiserum against peptide 67.1 (AISSPSGLAYPDDV-
LDYGL), a sequence located near the N terminus of murine NFATp.
Antiserum was produced by immunization of rabbits with the peptide
conjugated to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and was purified hy affinity
chromatography on a resin (Affi-Gel 10, Bio-Rad) bearing immobilized
peptide 67.1. Other reagents used were antisera against the peptides
67.2 and 72 (18) and an antiserum directed against a recombinant frag-
ment af NFATp that includes the DNA-binding domain (18). Horseradish
peroxidase-conjugated goat anti-rabbit-IgG (F(ab’), fragment) was from
Cappel; Cy3-conjugated donkey anti-rabbit-IgG was from Jackson
ImmunoResearch Laboratories, Inc.; and normal rabbit Ig (Pentex rab-
bit gamma globulins, fraction [1) was from Miles Laboratories.

SDS-Polyacrylamide Gel Electrophoresis and Western Aualysis—
Cytosolic extracts from PC12 cells and from T cells were prepared as
previously described (15). Spleen and the indicated brain regions were
dissected from 3- to 4-week-old mice and were homogenized in lysis
buffer (50 mat NaCl, 10 mm Tris, pH 8.0, 1 ma EDTA, 100 pg/ml suybean
trypsin inhibitor, 100 yg/ml aprotinin, 250 us leupeptin, 10 mm iodo-
acetamide, 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) at 0.3 g, wet tissue
weight/ml. 10% SDS was added to bring the final concentration of SDS
to 2%. The solution was boiled for 10 min and then centrifug: d for 5 min
in a microcentrifuge, and the supernatant was collected. Pretein con-
ventration in the samples was determined with bovine serum albumin
as standard (33).

 

+4. Raghavan and P. G. Hogan, unpublished data.

28181