28182

Samples were fractionated on a 6% SDS-polyacrylamide gel (24) and
transferred overnight onto nitrocellulose. After transfer the lanes con-
taining molecular weight markers (SDS-polyacrylamide ge} electro-
phoresis molecular weight standards, high range, Bio-Rad) were
stained with Ponceau red. The remainder of the nitrocellulose mem-
brane was preincubated with 2% gelatin (Bio-Rad) in Tris-buffered sa-
line (150 mm NaCl, 10 mm Tris, pH 8.0), incubated in Tris-buffered
saline containing 0.02% gelatin and 0.05% Tween 20 for 3 h at room
temperature with 0.4~-1 ng/ml affinity-purified antiserum raised
against peptide 67.1 or 15-75 ng/ml affinity-purified antiserum against
recombinant NFATp, and then incubated with goat anti-rabbit-IgG
coupled to horseradish peroxidase for 1 h at room temperature. Labeled
bands were detected with the ECL system (Amersham Corp.). Controla
for nonspecific staining were incubation of the primary antiserum with
the corresponding peptide (0.5-1.5 pe/ml) or substitution of an equal
concentration of normal rabbit Ig for anti-recombinant-NFATp anti-
serum in the primary incubation. .

Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay—Cytosolic extracts for electro-
phoretic mobility shift assay were prepared from PC12 cells and from T
cells as detailed above. In some cases the cytosolic extracts were frac-
tionated by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (34), the proteins
were eluted from gel slices, and elated proteins were renatured (15)
before addition to the DNA binding assay. Olfactory bulb extracts and
spleen extracts were prepared by homogenizing the tissue in the lysis
buffer deseribed above and then adding 5% Nonidet P-40 to bring the
final concentration of Nonidet P-40 to 0.05%. The homogenate was
incubated on ice for 15 min, the extract was centrifuged at 1000 x g for
20 min at 4 °C, and the supernatant was centrifuged at 100,000 x g for
Lhat4°C. The resulting supernatant was filtered through a 0.45-ym
filter and precipitated with an equal volume of 3 mM ammonium sulfate,
and the precipitate was dissolved in 0.1 volume of buffer A (150 ma
NaCl, 20 mu HEPES, pH 7.4, 2 ma EDTA, 0.5 mx dithiothreitol, 10%
glycerol) with protease inhibitors (300 pg/mi aprotinin, 75 wat leupeptin,
10 mm icdoacetamide, 2 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) (18). After
dialysis at 4 °C against two changes of buffer A, aliquots of the extract
were quick-frozen and stored at ~70 °C. Protein concentration was de-
termined (35) with bovine serum albumin as standard.

The DNA binding ability of the extracts (or fractions) was assessed by
electrophoreti+ mobility shift assay with labeled murine NFAT oligonu-
cleotide (15), The specificity of DNA recognition was tested by examin-
ing the ability of unlabeled oligonucleotides to compete with the labeled
murine NFAT oligonucleotide for binding of the protein (8, 36). Antisera
against recombinant NFATp (0.5 pg/ml), antisera against NFATp pep-
tides (67 pg/ml), and synthetic NFATp peptides (67 pg/ml) were used in
the electrophoretic mobility shift assay as described (18).

Immunohistoehemistry—Coronal eryostat sections (12 pm) through
olfactory bulb and olfactory epithelium were stained for NFATp with 1
ng/ml affinity-purified rabbit antiserum against peptide 67.1 as pri-
mary antibody and with Cy3-conjugated goat anti-rabbit-IgG as second-
ary antibody. For negative controls, the primary antibody was incu-
bated with 0.4 ng/ml of the corresponding peptide, or normal rabbit Ig
was used as the primary antibody.

RESULTS

Cytosolic proteins from PC12 cells were examined by West-
ern analysis using an antiserum raised against a peptide of
NFAT». PC12 cell extracts (Fig. 1, lane 1), like extracts from
spleen (Jane 2) or from a murine T cell clone (dane 3), showed a
broad band af labeled material that migrated with an apparent
molecular mass of ~120 kDa. Binding of the antiserum to the
PC12 cell, spleen, and T cell proteins was blocked by preincu-
bation of the antiserum with its cognate peptide (lanes 4-4),
demonstrating that these proteins were specifically recognized
by the antiserum. Similar results were obtained by Western
analysis with an antiserum to a recombinant fragment of
NFATp (data not shown), indicating that the PC12 cell protein
shared antigenic determinants with at least twa distinct re-
gions <f NFATp.

We tested whether the 120-kDa PC12 cell protein identified
by Western analysis was functional in DNA binding. PC12 cell
cytosolic proteins formed two protein-DNA complexes in an
electrophoretic mobility shift assay with a “P-labeled oligonu-
cleotide corresponding to the distal NFAT site of the murine
IL-2 promoter (Fig. 2A, /ane 1). The mobility of the lower of

Expression of NFATp in PC12 Cells and in Neurons

 

: eptide
antiserum eebek
« 8 3 a 8
gee gee
a7 -
66-
45-
lane 1 2 3 45 6

Fic. 1. Western analysis of NFATp in cytosolic extracts of PC12
cells and T cells, Extracts from PC12 cells (dane 1), spleen cells Jane
2), and CL.7W2 T cells (lane 3) were concentrated by precipitation with
ammonium sulfate and analyzed by Western blotting with an anti-
serum directed against a peptide of NFATp. No bands were detected
when the antipeptide antiserum was blocked by preincubation with the
corresponding peptide (anes 4-6), The positions of 97, 66, and 45 kDa
molecular mass standards are indicated on the left.

these two complexes (filled arrowhead) was identical to that of
the NFATp-DNA complex formed using a T cell cytosolic extract
(lane 7). Its DNA binding specificity was also identical to that
of T cell NFATp (compare lanes 2-6 with lanes 8-12; see also
Ref. 8) in that unlabeled NFAT oligenucleotide and the M1
oligonucleotide, which is mutated outside the NFATp recogni-
tion site, competed for binding of the protein. M2 competed less
effectively, and M3, mutated in the core of the NFATp recogni-
tion site, failed to compete. Incubation of PC12 cell cytosolic
proteins with antiserum against an NFATp peptide caused the
lower of the twa bands to “supershift” into an antibody-protein-
DNA complex (Fig. 2B, dane 2). The supershift of the lower band
could be blocked by preincubation of the antiserum with its
cognate peptide (lane 3) but not by preincubation with an ir-
relevant peptide (lane 4). The antiserum itself did not bind
appreciably to the probe (Jane 5), indicating that the supershift
represented specific recognition of the lower protein-DNA com-
plex. Furthermore, the same results were obtained with anti-
sera against two other NFATp peptides (data not shown). All
the antisera tested failed to supershift the upper complex from
PC12 cell cytosol, indicating that only the lower complex in-
volved a protein closely similar to T cell NFATp.

Similar results were obtained when PC12 cell cytosolic pro-
teins were incubated with an antiserum raised against a re-
combinant fragment of NFATp. Incubation of the PC12 cell
proteins with the preimmune serum had no effect (Fig. 2C,
compare lanes £ and 2), while incubation with the immune
serum supershifted the lower, but not the upper, band (ane 3).
Most of the NFATp-DNA complex formed in the presence of this
antiserum migrated near the top of the gel and probably re-
flected cross-linking of the protein-DNA complex into large ag-
gregates by the polyclonal serum. Again, the antibody did not
show appreciable binding to the probe (lane 7).

To confirm that the PC12 cell proteins that bound to the
NFAT oligonucleotide were related to the 120-kDa proisin de-
tected by Western analysis, we assessed their apparent molec-
ular mass by renaturation of the proteins from SDS-polyacry!-
amide gels. PC12 cell cytosolic proteins were fractionated on an
SDS-polyacrylamide gel, eluted from individual gel slices, and
renatured as previously described (15). When the renalured
PC12 cell proteins were tested by electrophoretic mobility shift