P.

APR 28 95 0744 READ-POLAND/214/768-6867

Monday, April 3, 1995

 

 

Risk of infant (S..
that no smoke is safe smoke |

Anti-abortion activists
concerned with the well-
being of fetuses should per-
haps start supporting anoth: §
ef group of protesters — the
opponents of secondhand §
smoke.

Roughly one-fourth of 4
American women smoke TOM
while pregnant, and perhaps SJE QFRIED
as Many as half of nonsmok-
ing pregnant women are exposed to the smoke of
others. Nicotine from this smoke makes its way to
the fetus, and medical researchers have document-
ed several damaging consequences. Nicotine expo-
sure has been linked to a higher rate of spontaneous
abortions, lower birth weights and a higher rate of
attention deficit disorder.

Furthermore, a study published this month
found a substantial increase in Sudden Infant Death
Syndrome (commonly known as “crib death”)
among infants exposed to smoke before birth.

SIDS kills more than 5,000 babies per year in the
United States; more babies between the age of 1
month and 1 year die of SIDS than from any other
cause. The causes of crib death have long been
mysterious — and in fact, part of the definition of
SIDS is that the death is unexplained. But while the

"unknown causes of SIDS aren’t likely to be simple,
cigarette smoke seems to be a factor.

Smoking by mothers, fathers or other people in
the same room with a baby greatly increases the crib
death risk, researchers from the University of Cali-
fornia, San Diego, reported last month in the Jour-
nal of the American Medical Association.

“The greater the total number of cigarettes the
infant was passively exposed to after birth from all
adults, the higher the risk of SIDS,” wrote Hillary
Sandra Klonoff-Cohen and colleagues.

Furthermore, smoke raises the risk of SIDS even
when the exposure comes before birth. When fa-
thers smoked in the presence of a nonsmoking
mother during pregnancy, for example, the risk of
infant crib death more than tripled. If the mother
smoked during pregnancy, the risk wag even great-
er, the researchers found.

Of course, such research represents only an in-
dictment of cigarette smoke as a baby killer and not
yet a conviction, for a correlation is not proof of a
cause-and-effect relationship. Still, other research
has begun to show evidence of how nicotine might
do direct damage to the developing fetal brain.

In a recent issue of the journal Developmental

  
  

 

 

Tbedaltas orig Nang

death suggests

 

Brain Research, Stanford University scientists fe: |.
ported that prenatal nicotine exposure can’altels
activity in the part of the brain responsibje for
maintaining the biological clock. eee

Biological clocks are the pacemakers of life? poets
lating various. bodily functions including slebp‘oy--.
cles and body temperature. In mammals the biologi.
cal clock is under the control of a small clunip.of:
brain cells called the suprachiasmatic nucleus? >. -s

Studying laboratory rats, the Stanford restatcli-:
ers injected mothers-to-bé with nicotine and’ then,
examined resulting changes in brain processés in‘
both the mother and fetuses. (Comparisons; were~
made to a group of rats injected with saling séld~.
tion.) Nicotine caused several changes in brain’ac-+
tivity, and for the most part the changes werd the?
same in mother rat and babies-to-be. :

In the last few days before birth, however,. nico-
tine induced a change in the fetuses’ suprachiasma-
tic nuclei, though not in the mothers’. The change
was the switching into sction of a particular gene
known as c-fos. Among other things, c-fos plays an
important role in the regulation of circadian.
rhythms — the daily rhythms of the biological’ -
clock. So by altering c-fos activity, nicotine likely
gave the fetal rats an artificial form of jety Jag, .|-

 

8

9D-

 

Ww

 

throwing the circadian rhythm of mothers and;ba--:) "

bies out of sync.

“If nicotinic ... stimulation in the fetus has an
effect on the biological clock, there could be poten-.-.
tially damaging effects,”"Thomas Kilduff and col-:
leagues wrote. Interference with circadian rhythms'-
might throw off the normal process of mother-child’.
bonding, for example.

“It is possible that the increased incidence of"
Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. and. Attention | Defi-
cit Disorders in the offspring of maternal smokers .
may be related to this very mechanism,” the Stan-..
ford scientists speculated.

It may be no coineldence, the researchers” suge
gest, that the peak period of SIDS desths — in infants
2 to 4 months old — corresponds to a time when the .
babies’ circadian rhythm cycles are being eataby.
lished.

More research is needed to pin down the possible
aks between smoke, circadian rhythms and’ SIDS.
But results so far clearly suggest that the dangers of’
secondhand smoke may go far beyond a small Statis-'
tical increase in the Hkelihood of lung cancer.

Tn the chemistry of the developing brain, tiny
amounts of certain substances can have serious.
effects that last a lifetime, such as making’ that:
lifetime very, very short. .

 

 

 

 

OS6LT Tope