-16- °
and sixty children had been exposed to prenatal maternal: smoking, and.232 were exposed
postnatally to ETS (most of these were also exposed. prenatally). In the crude analysis,
both prenatal and postnatal maternal smoking were associated with lower scores on all
Bayley and McCarthy subscales. The decrements in scores seen with postnatal smoking
were consistent with other studies (ranging from 2.4-4 1%) and were generally statistically
significant. In contrast, differences associated with prenatal maternal smoking were
smaller and not statistically significant. A dose-response relationship was seen between
level of maternal smoking after pregnancy and the Mental Development Index of the
Bayley exam. There was no attempt to calculate the effect of postnatal maternal smoking
independent of prenatal maternal smoking. When the analysis of postnatal smoking was
adjusted for socioeconomic status, HOME score, and the mother's intelligence quotient,
test score differences dropped by 65-90% to near nil and lost statistical significance. In
their final regression model (which also included sex, birthweight, number of siblings, and

breast- vs. bottle-feeding), neither maternal nor paternal smoking was associated with any
subscale score.

Studies of Behavior and Postnatal ETS Exposure

Denson et al. (1975)

Denson ef al. (1975) (Table 4-2B) conducted a small case-control study comparing 20
hyperkinetic children with dyslexic and normal controls, matched for sex, age, and social
class. Parental cigarette consumption at the time of interview and during pregnancy was
ascertained by interview with the mother. The mean number of cigarettes smoked per day
during pregnancy was greater in mothers of cases than in mothers of normal controls (14.3
vs. 6.3 cigarettes/day, p<0.05). The difference was more pronounced when consumption
at the time of interview was compared (23.3 vs. 8.2 cigarettes/day, p<0.001). Sixteen of
the twenty case mothers smoked during pregnancy (80%), but the number of control
mothers who smoked was not given (thus ORs cannot be calculated). The fathers of cases
smoked slightly more than control fathers, both during the pregnancy (22.2 vs. 18.5
cigarettes/day) and at interview (21.3 vs. 20.7 cigarettes/day), but the differences were not

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

CEEZDELEOZ |