-75-

(PPVT), the Raven Colored Progressive Matrices Test (a test of reasoning ability), the
Quick Test (another test of receptive vocabulary), and the Goodenough-Harris Draw-A-
Man test of intellectual maturity. Ten-year-olds were administered the PPVT and Raven

"test, and the 16-year-olds were administered the PPVT only.

The authors first examined mean test scores by mother's prenatal smoking (yes/no) and
current smoking (yes/no). For all Raven and PP'VT exams, mean scores were 3-10%
lower in children of current smokers, independent of matemal smoking status during
pregnancy (p<0.001). Conversely, there was little difference in mean scores by prenatal
smoking status after stratification by current parental smoking (No difference by smoking
status was seen in the Quick Test or Draw-A-Man, and the authors did not consider these
tests further). The investigators then examined the effect of current parental smoking after
adjustment for multiple confounders, including mothers’ smoking during pregnancy, age,
sex, race, low birthweight, and parents' education, occupation, and income. For the 16-
year exam, active smoking by the child was also included in the regression. Again, current
parental smoking had a negative effect on PPVT and Raven scores whereas the mother’s

smoking during pregnancy had a negligible effect.

The results were significant only at the 10-year examination, where a 3-5% decrement in
test scores was seen. The authors speculated that the loss of significance at the 5- and 16-
year exams may have been related to their method of interpolating smoking status, which
would have biased results toward the null. The adjusted scores for the 10-year PPVT and
Raven examinations displayed a dose-response relationship over four categories of
parental smoking (p<0.01 for linear trend).

Baghurst et al. (1992)

Baghurst et al. (1992) conducted a longitudinal study that examined maternal smoking
during and after pregnancy. Their study cohort had been assembled for the primary
purpose of assessing the effect of lead exposure upon cognition. Of the 723 infants
enrolled in the study at birth, 548 were still enrolled at the age of 4 years. Each child was
administered the Bayley exam at age 2 and the McCarthy exam at age 4. One-hundred

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

PEGCPELSOS