77.

significant. There was no control for confounding other than matching, and there was no

attempt to separate pre- and postnatal exposure.
Weitzman et al. (1992)

Weitzman et al. (1992) attempted to examine the separate contributions of pre- and post-
natal exposure. The investigators examined children of women who had been enrolled in
the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth in 1979. A total of 2,256 children aged 4 to

11 years were studied. Maternal smoking was categorized as none, only during pregnancy
(there were only 132 children in this group), only after pregnancy, and during and after
pregnancy. Since the smoking categories were derived from the mother’s smoking status
during pregnancy and in 1984, exposure misclassification among the smokers probably
occurred. Thus, some mothers in the “only during pregnancy" group may have smoked in
pregnancy and for several years afterwards as long as they quit before 1984. Mothers
completed a Behavior Problem Index (BPI) survey regarding their children's activities and ©
social relationships. A large number of potential confounders were included in the
analysis, including demographic factors, birthweight, current health status of mother and
child, HOME score, and maternal education, intelligence, use of alcohol during pregnancy,
self-esteem, and employment. Paternal or family smoking was not assessed.

The investigators found that smoking was associated with BPI score in a dose-related
manner in two groups-of children with mothers who smoked: children whose mothers
smoked after pregnancy only, and children whose mothers smoked both during and after
pregnancy. In the small group of children whose mothers smoked during pregnancy only,
smoking 1-20 cigarettes per day was also associated with higher BPI scores, but not
significantly so (p=0.13). The adjusted differences in BPI score were fairly comparable
across the three categories of exposure. A similar pattern of results was seen when odds
ratios for extreme scores on the BPI were calculated. Since the outcome measure was
assessed by the mother, differences in BPI may have reflected different perceptions of

behavior by smoking mothers rather than altered behavior of the child.

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

OLGZPELSOS

|
1
1