-67-

through chronic carbon monoxide exposure (Watkins and Strope, 1986), and ETS can
directly affect lung function (U.S. DHHS, 1986). Finally, exposure to ETS increases the
likelihood of respiratory tract infections in infants ( as discussed in the chapter Respiratory
"Health Effects of Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke), which in turn may

increase the risk of SIDS. These hypotheses remain to be confirmed.

In conclusion, recent findings from Mitchell et af. (1993) and Schoendorf and Kiely
(1992) (and to a lesser extent, Nicholl and O'Cathain, 1992) provide suggestive evidence
that postnatal ETS exposure of the child is an independent risk factor for SIDS. To firmly
establish a causal relationship between postnatal ETS exposure and SIDS, further research
is needed to address the main limitations of the existing studies, e.g., the lack of a paternal
smoking effect in families with non-smoking mothers (seen in Mitchell et a/., 1993), and
the possibility (in the study by Schoendorf and Kiely, 1992) that the effect could actually
be due to early prenatal exposure.

4.3 Cognition and Behavior in Children

The determinants of cognitive ability and behavior in children are extremely complex. A
wide array of genetic, social, and environmental factors are thought to influence
neuropsychological development, including parental intellectual and emotional make-up,
socioeconomic status, nutritional status, quality of the home environment, number and
spacing of siblings, birth order, sex, and maternal intake of alcohol during pregnancy.
Many of these factors do not act independently of each other, but instead create a web of
influence that can be-very difficult to untangle.

4.3.1 Overview of Human Studies of Cognition and Behavior in Children
and Maternal Smoking During Pregnancy

A number of studies have examined the association between active maternal smoking
during pregnancy and cognition and behavior in children. These have been reviewed in

Rush and Callahan (1989), Rush (1992), and Tong and McMichael (1992). In the

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

S6SPELSOZ

i
{