-7\.

‘The findings of Landesman-Dwyer ¢/ al, (1981) did not support an association between
maternal active smoking during pregnancy and hyperactive behavior. They scored 4-year-
olds on a Jarge number of behaviors during a 3-hour observation period in the children's
homes, There were no differences noted between children of smokers and children of
nonsmokers after adjustment for sox, birth order, matemal alcohol use, and HOME score.
However, smoking mothers rated their children as *intense", “persistent”, and “willing to
approach strangers” more often than did nonsmoking mothers.

Three groups of investigators have used computer-controlled “vigilance tasks" to evaluate
attention, impulsivity, and reaction time in children. Poor vigilance performance is related
to childhood hyperactivity (Porrino ef al., 1983), Streissguth ef af, (1984), controlling for
tint order and maternal education, nutrition, and caffeine and alcohol intake, founc thet
matemal nicotine consumption in pregnancy was significantly associated in a dose-related
manner with poorer attention span. Kristjansson ef al, (1989) fonnd that increased activity
levels were more common in children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy, even
after adjustment for age, sex, income, maternal education, alcohol and marijuana use, and
postnatal amoke exporure. In a larger sample drawn from the same cohort as Kristjansson
et al, (1989), Fried et al. (1992) found that vigilance parameters reflecting impulsiveness
and attention, as well as the MoCarthy memory subscale, significantly discriminated
between children whose mothers were non-, light, and heavy smokers in « discriminant
function analysis. Smoking mothers were alzo mote likely to report impulsive and
hyperactive behavior in their children, but the difference was not significant (p >0.10), No
adjustments for covariates were made, as the authors stated that no potentially
confounding variables were associated with both smoking and the outcome variables.

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

| OL6zbEzS0e |

\