-66-

smoking were slightly elevated, but no adjustment for maternal smoking had been made.
The third paper to examine paternal smoking (Nicholl and O'Cathain, 1992) found a
significantly elevated risk of SIDS independent of maternal smoking. The risk associated
with paternal smoking increased with the age of the infant, suggesting that passive
exposure of the infant was important. Lack of control for potential confounders
somewhat reduces confidence in their findings. Mitchell et al. (1993) looked extensively
at smoking among fathers. Overall, paternal smoking remained associated with SIDS even
after controlling for maternal smoking and a number of other covariates. However, the
risk did not vary with the amount smoked by the father, and in families where the mother
did not smoke, the presence of a smoking father did not appear to increase SIDS risk.
The authors presented a plausible explanation for this pattern of results, namely that in
families where the mother does not smoke, the father may be less likely to smoke near the

infant; however, this speculation remains to be confirmed.

Two studies looked briefly at household smoke exposure and SIDS. Schoendorf and
Kiely (1992) found that among white infants there was an increased risk of SIDS
associated with the presence of smokers other than the mother in the household; no such
association was seen among black infants. With the information available to them,
Schoendorf and Kiely (1992) were not able to explain why no association was seen among
blacks. Mitchell ef al. (1993) found a dose-response relationship (unadjusted) between
the number of smokers in a household and the risk of SIDS. The adjusted OR for the
presence of any smokers other than the parents in the household was small (1.2) and the

confidence interval included unity.

There is some evidence that suggests a relationship between ETS and SIDS is biologically
plausible. Hoppenbrouwers et al. (1981) found an association between air pollution levels
and incidence of SIDS, suggesting that airborne contaminants may play a role in the

etiology of SIDS. Since tobacco smoke is a major contributor to indoor air pollution,

ETS could influence SIDS risk through mechanisms similar to those of other air
pollutants. The predilection of SIDS to occur in winter could in part be mediated by less
adequate indoor ventilation during that season, ETS may impair respiratory control

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

, Se6zbezso2

I
{
|