-73-

Studies of Cognition and Postnatal ETS Exposure
Rantakallio (1983)

Rantakallio (1983) conducted a nested exposure-control study within the Finnish Cohort
Study. Women who had smoked through the second month of pregnancy (n=1,819) were
matched on age, parity, marital status, and residence to nonsmoking pregnant women.
When their offspring were 14 years of age, information regarding the children's health and
school performance and the fathers’ smoking status was obtained by a mailed
questionnaire. As an outcome measure Rantakallio devised a six-point score based on
school performance in "theoretical subjects." The method by which this score was derived
was not explained. The magnitude of the association seen with maternal smoking during
pregnancy was comparable to other studies of prenatal exposure, with an adjusted
difference in mean performance score between children of heavy smokers and nonsmokers
of approximately 2.5% (this is an estimate from a figure, data were not presented). Ina
regression analysis that included social class, family size, maternal age and education, and
sex of the child as covariates, both maternal and paternal smoking were significant
predictors of the school performance score. Paternal smoking was a slightly stronger
predictor of score (standardized coefficient = -0.068) than maternal smoking during
pregnancy (standardized coefficient = -0.049). It was unclear if paternal smoking
represented current smoking status or smoking at the time of the pregnancy. The smoking
status of the mother after the second month of pregnancy, and the current smoking status
of the child or other family members were not ascertained.

Bauman et al. (1989)

Bauman and coworkers conducted two studies that looked at current ‘smoking by the —

parents and other family members. The first study (Bauman ef al, 1989) was a re-analysi’..

of data collected in 1980 to investigate social and psychological determinants of smoking
among eighth-graders in one North Carolina school district. The students had been
interviewed regarding their own smoking behavior, and their mothers had been given a

questionnaire which ascertained the total number of cigarettes smoked per day by ali

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

Se6zbEL co