~86-

paternal smoking, with an adjusted height decrement of 0.1 cm.among children of fathers
smoking >10 cigarettes per day. Over an average of four years of observation per child,
there was no association of either mother’s or father's smoking with the child's rate of

growth, which led the authors to suggest that the height differences were due to in utero

or early life exposure.

4.4.3 Animal Studies of Postnatal Physical Development and

Tobacco Smoke Exposure

No studies on this topic that used mainstream smoke were located. One study (Tachi and
Aoyama, 1988b) purports to deal with the effects of "sidestream" tobacco smoke on
postnatal growth in rats. Exposures began at weaning (21 days postnatal!) and continued
through adulthood (54 days of age). Rats mature sexually at 35-45 days of age. Reduced
growth rates in smoke-exposed animals were reported within a few days of initiation of
the exposure. Growth was determined by daily weighing during the study and
determination of organ weights at the conclusion of the study. A control group was
exposed to carbon monoxide levels comparable to those experienced by the group
exposed to tobacco smoke. However, no pair fed controls were included. Pair fed
controls are important in establishing that the exposure protocols did not lead to reduced
food intake due to disruption of normal feeding routines or general malaise.

4.4.4 Discussion and Conclusions
4.4.4.1 Postnatal Physical Development and Maternal Smoking During Pregnancy

Investigators have consistently observed a height decrement of 0.7-1.0 cm among children
of women who smoked at least 10 cigarettes per day during pregnancy. Fox ef ai. (1990)
demonstrated a similar effect when comparing children of quitters and persistent smokers.
Dose-response relationships have also been consistently observed. Although very smail,
the effect appears to be independent of sex, parental height, socioeconomic status, birth
order, and family size. None of the studies controlled for postnatal exposure to ETS.

However, the jack of evidence associating ETS exposure with height growth (see below)

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

1

| Sbezbezsoe'