-78-

43.3 Animal Studies of Cognition and Behavior and Tobacco

Smoke Exposure

Behavioral teratology studies in animals examine postnatal behavioral function after
developmental exposures to toxicants. Bertolini et al. (1982) reported an enhanced rate of
learning of an active avoidance task in offspring of rats exposed to mainstream tobacco
smoke daily during gestation. Studies using sidestream smoke have been reported only in
abstract form (Lindsay ef al., 1985; Mactutus et al., 1993) and do not present enough
information for evaluation. There is a large literature concerning the effects of prenatal
exposure to nicotine and carbon monoxide on postnatal behavior; these data are discussed

briefly in Sections 6.1 and 6.2, and in a recent review (Mactutus, 1989).
4.3.4 Discussion and Conclusions

43.4.1 Cognition and Behavior in Children and Maternal Smoking During Pregnancy

Most studies of cognitive development demonstrated small decrements, especially in
language skills, in children whose mothers smoked during pregnancy. Where data were
presented to make the calculation possible, differences associated with maternal smoking
ranged from about 2 to 5% (Sexton ef al., 1990, Hardy and Mellits, 1972; Naeye and
Peters, 1984; Rantakallio, 1983). In most studies that found an association, dose-response
relationships were also noted. Studies of infants tended not to show effects after
adjustment for covariates, whereas studies of older children tended to show significant
effects. The relative lack of association seen in studies of infants may reflect the fact that
studies of infants tended to be better controlled than studies of older children. This
hypothesis is supported by the results of Baghurst et al. (1992), a well-controlled negative
study of older children. Alternatively, effects of active maternal smoking during
pregnancy may become more “measurable” as children mature and their intellectual

functions become more complex.

Eight of nine studies of behavior and active maternal smoking during pregnancy have

shown increased activity level and decreased attention span in children of smokers. Of the

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

LEGUPEASOS