-70-

spelling and reading sections of the Wide Ranging Achievement Test; Naeye and Peters
(1984) also found an increasing effect with number of cigarettes smoked. Nichols and
Chen (1981) found a 25% increased risk (unadjusted) of learning difficulties among
children of heavy smokers (220 cigarettes per day). In their crude analysis, risk varied
with dose; however, the association between maternal smoking and learning difficulties
diminished to non-significance in the final multivariate model. In an uncontrolled analysis,
Dunn et al. (1977) found that children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy scored
approximately 3% lower on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale than did children of

nonsmokers.

None of these studies of older children controlled for maternal alcohol intake during
pregnancy, parental intelligence, quality of the home environment, or smoking status of
the child or family members. In an attempt to control for unassessed genetic and
environmental factors, Naeye and Peters (1984) also conducted a sibling pair comparison,
balanced for birth order, in which the mother smoked during one pregnancy and not the
other, This study again found achievement test scores 2-5% lower among children of
smoking mothers. Changes in marital status or outside employment did not explain the
association.
Behavioral problems such as hyperactivity have, with one exception, been consistently
reported in studies of children with prenatal exposure to maternal active smoking. Dunn
ef al. (1977) found that male children of mothers who smoked during pregnancy were
judged by their teachers to have more problems with behavior, social development, and
temperament (uncontrolled analysis; proportions were not given). In their work with the
large National Collaborative Perinatal Project, Nichols and Chen (1981) found that
school-aged children of women who smoked more than 20 cigarettes per day during
pregnancy had a 28% increased risk of hyperkinetic-impulsive behavior. Naeye and Peters
(1984) found that children's attention span decreased and level of activity increased as the

number of cigarettes smoked per day by the mother during pregnancy increased, even after 8
adjustment for demographic factors, gestational age, and breast feeding. Similar results G :
were found in the sibling pair comparison. &
re)
EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT S ‘
MARCH 1995 o