5 -74-

family members. Smoking status of the students and mothers was validated by analysis of
breath samples for carbon monoxide. For this study, the analysis was restricted to the 973
students who denied being smokers themselves and who had alveolar carbon monoxide
levels <9 ppm. The students were later routinely administered the California Achievement
Test (CAT) by their school. In the crude analysis, scores for the total battery.and each of
the four subtest scores (math, language, reading, and spelling) decreased as family
smoking increased over four categories (zero, 1-19, 20-39, and >40 cigarettes per day).
The differences by smoking level were all statistically significant (p<0.001). After
adjustment for eight covariates, including age, sex, race, and parents’ educational level,
generally consistent inverse relationships between family smoking and test scores
remained. However, the associations between the math and reading subscores were no
longer significant at the p=0.05 level. The magnitude of difference in scores was not
large. For example, the mean adjusted total CAT score was 618.8 for children of
nonsmoking families and 602.9 for children in the heaviest family smoking category--a
difference of about 3% of the range for these test scores. The language subscores also
differed by approximately 3%, whereas the spelling subscores differed by about 6%.

There was no adjustment for maternal smoking status during pregnancy.

Bauman et al. (1991)

The second study (Bauman ef al., 1991) was done using data from the examinations of
children at ages 5, 9-11, and 15-17 years (referred to as the 5, 10, and 16-year
examinations) enrolled in the Child Health and Development Studies of the Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, a health maintenance organization in California. This dataset
allowed the authors to control for maternal smoking during pregnancy, as well as a
number of other pertinent covariates. Sample sizes for each of the examinations ranged
from 2,020 (the 16-year exam) to 4,939 (the 5-year exam). Parental smoking status was
obtained by periodic interviews with the mothers, but father’s smoking had to be
interpolated for the 5- and 16-year examinations. Twelve to thirty percent of the children
had missing parental smoking information and were excluded from the analysis. Cognitive

tests performed at the 5-year exam included the Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

| ERGebELEOS |