-81-

enabled prenatal exposure to maternal active smoking and postnatal ETS exposure to be
examined independently. They found significant, dose-related associations between most
categories of postnatal maternal smoking and a behavior problem index. However, their
use of a mother-reported outcome meant that they were unable to determine if maternal

smoking was associated with differences in the children's behavior or in the mothers’

perceptions,

Proposed mechanisms through which ETS could affect a child's neuropsychological
development include a direct effect of nicotine (a stimulant) upon the central nervous
system, and adverse impacts of chronic exposure to carbon monoxide. Exposure to ETS
increases concentrations of carboxyhemoglobin in the blood (Huch et af., 1980; Jarvis e¢
ai, 1983), and increased ambient carbon monoxide levels adversely affect mental
functioning in humans (National Research Council, 1977; World Health Organization,
1979). As noted above, the large literature on the effects on animals of prenatal exposure
to carbon monoxide and nicotine suggest that adverse impacts of these agents on postnatal

neurobehavior is biologically plausible.

In conclusion, there are very few studies that have examined the relationship of
neuropsychological development to postnatal ETS exposure of the child, independent of
prenatal exposure to maternal active smoking. One study of behavior (Weitzman ef al,
1992) did a reasonably good job of separating postnatal from in utero exposure and also
controlled for other pertinent covariates. This study found significant adverse
relationships associated with childhood ETS exposure. With respect to cognitive
development, the best-controlled study showed no association with ETS, but three other
fairly well-controlled studies showed modest decrements associated with ETS. No
conclusions regarding causality can be made on the basis of these studies, but they do
provide suggestive evidence that ETS exposure may pose a neuropsychological

developmental hazard.

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

| ObG2bELS0z