-68-

following summary of the literature, studies of cognition in infants, pre-schoolers, and

older children are discussed, followed by a review of behavioral studies.

Infant neuropsychological development is often assessed using the Bayley Scales of Infant
Development, an administered test that includes mental, psychomotor, and behavioral
components (Bayley, 1969). Garn ef al. (1980) examined the Bayley scores of over
43,500 infants enrolled in the National Collaborative Perinatal Project, and found that the
proportion with low mental and motor scores increased as maternal cigarette consumption
increased. The association was very smail until maternal consumption exceeded 20
cigarettes per day; there was no control for potential confounders. Streissguth et al.
(1980) failed to find significant relationships between maternal smoking (converted to a
nicotine score) and Bayley scores after adjusting for gestational age and maternal
education, parity, alcohol and caffeine intake. Whether or not non-significant relationships
existed could not be determined from the data presented. Gusella and Fried (1984) found
modest negative correlations between nicotine consumption and psychomotor, verbal
comprehension, and fine motor indices (the range of Pearson correlation coefficients (r)
was -0.11 to -0.22), controlling only for father's education. Only the relationship with
verbal comprehension was significant (exact p values were not calculable from data

presented).

Fried and Watkinson (1988) studied a larger sample from the same cohort studied by
Gusella and Fried (1984), weighted so that children with heavier exposure to prenatal
tobacco and alcohol would be overrepresented. They found that after adjustment for the
quality of the home environment (assessed by the Home Observation for Measurement of
the Environment (HOME) test), maternal alcohol use, and various demographic factors,
differences between 2-year-old children of smokers and nonsmokers diminished to nearly

nil (the HOME test measures a variety of characteristics of the home environment and

i

| £26ZVELGOZ

maternal-child interaction, and is strongly correlated with many measures of child
development (Siegel, 1982)). Thus, the this study suggests that most, if not all, of the
negative association between maternal smoking during pregnancy and scores on the

Bayley exam can be explained by confounding by other variables.

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995