-80-

influence neuropsychoiogical development (Overpeck and Moss, 1991; Fried and
Watkinson, 1988). That, and the small size of the associations seen between maternal
smoking and neuropsychological outcomes, makes it particularly difficult to rule out the
possibility of a spurious effect due to undercontrolled confounding. Nevertheless, the
consistency of findings across studies done years apart, with different designs,

populations, controlled covariates, and outcome measurements, is quite striking.
4.3.4.2 Cognition and Behavior in Children and ETS Exposure

The evidence that ETS exposure of a nonsmoking pregnant woman can result in’
neuropsychologic deficits in the child, though very limited, is suggestive of an effect. One
small study (Makin et al., 1991) found an association between ETS exposure of
nonsmoking mothers during pregnancy and decrements in their offspring's test scores. If
replicated, the finding would be important, since it is estimated that in the U.S., 30% of
nonsmoking mothers are exposed to ETS during pregnancy (Overpeck and Moss, 1991).

The four studies that have looked at postnatal ETS exposure and cognitive endpoints in
children have shown inconsistent results. Three (Rantakallio, 1983; Bauman et al., 1989
and 1991) found modest decrements in performance by ETS-exposed children, even after
adjustment for a variety of other factors. Dose-response relationships were reported in the
two Bauman ef al. studies. However, the findings of Bauman ef al. (1991) were internally
inconsistent in that associations were not seen at all ages and results differed for two tests
of receptive language (the PPVT and the Quick Test). None of these studies adjusted for
parental intelligence or characteristics of the home environment. In the fourth study,
Baghurst ef al. (1992), in their crude analysis, also found decrements in test scores
associated with maternal smoking after pregnancy. However, these decrements

disappeared after adjustment for several powerful confounders, including socioeconomic

status, HOME score, and maternal IQ.

Of the two studies that examined postnatal ETS exposure and children's behavior, Denson
et al. (1975) was too small and poorly conducted to allow any conclusions to be drawn.
On the other hand, Weitzman ef al. (1992) conducted a large, well-controlled study that

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

. ela

Pda: eatin E