~64-

status, age, and smoking during pregnancy, infant's age, sex, birthweight, race, and
sleeping position; and smoking by the father and other household members. Although
results were adjusted for maternal smoking during pregnancy, less than 10% of the
mothers changed their smoking behavior through pregnancy and the first year of the
infant's life. There was a strong dose-response relationship observed between amount
smoked by the mother and risk of SIDS (these ORs were not adjusted for any covariates).
The researchers also found a significant relationship between recent paternal smoking and
SIDS, with a crude OR of 2.4 (CI=1.9, 3.0) and an adjusted OR of 1.4 (CI-1.0, 1.8;
adjusted for maternal smoking as well as the other covariates listed previously). They did
not see a dose-response relationship for paternal smoking. Among infants whose mothers
did not smoke (131 cases and 1081 controls), there appeared to be no difference in SIDS
risk between infants whose fathers smoked and those with non-smoking fathers (OR=1.0,
CI=0.6, 1.6), However, having a smoking father appeared to substantially increase the
risk of SIDS among infants whose mothers smoked. The authors speculated that non-
smoking mothers may be more likely than smoking mothers to insist that fathers smoke

away from the child.

Mitchell ef ai. also looked at the relationship between the number of smokers in the
household and the risk of SIDS. Having any other smokers, excluding the parents, in the
household resulted in a crude OR of 1.5 (CI=1.2, 2.0) and an adjusted OR of 1.2 (CI=0.8,
1.6). When parents were included, there was a strong dose-response relationship between

the number of household smokers and the risk of SIDS.

4.2.3 Animal Studies of SIDS and Tobacco Smoke Exposure
There is no animal mode! for SIDS.

4.2.4 Discussion and Conclusions

Existing data indicate a causal relationship between maternal smoking in general and risk
of SIDS. Numerous studies have consistently found maternal smoking to be a significant
predictor of SIDS, with ORs from well-controlled studies ranging from 1.8 to 3.1.

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

CebSbessoe |

I
t