-65-

Several investigators (but not all) have found clear dose-response relationships between
the number of cigarettes smoked per day during pregnancy and SIDS risk. Although the
etiology of SIDS is not fully understood, a favored current hypothesis is that chronic fetal

, hypoxia impairs development of the fetal central nervous system, leading to abnormal
control of cardio-respiratory activity (Harper and Frysinger, 1988). Maternal smoking
during pregnancy promotes fetal hypoxia through placental insufficiency or by increasing
the concentrations of carbon monoxide and carboxyhemoglobin in the fetus (U.S. DHHS,
1980). In support of this hypothesis is the finding by Bulterys et af. (1990) that low
hematocrit during pregnancy becomes an important predictor of SIDS as the level of
maternal smoking increases. Exposure to nicotine may also alter an infant’s catecholamine

metabolism and response to hypoxia (Milerad and Sundell, 1993).

Six studies have attempted to specifically examine the relationship between ETS exposure
and SIDS. These studies have looked at smoking by the mother after pregnancy, paternal
smoking, and household smoking. In three studies that looked at maternal postnatal
smoking (Bergman and Wiesner, 1976; McGlashan, 1989; Mitchell et al, 1991), extensive
overlapping between women smoking during and after pregnancy precluded any attempt
to identify an independent relationship to ETS exposure. In Mitchell et al. (1993), a
significant association between postnatal maternal smoking and SIDS remained after
adjustment for smoking during pregnancy and other covariates. However, the number of
smokers who had not smoked during pregnancy was very small. Schoendorf and Kiely
(1992) took advantage of the recent trend-for women who are smokers to quit smoking
during pregnancy by comparing infants of women who smoked primarily only after
pregnancy with infants of non-smoking mothers. Their adjusted OR (1.8) was quite
similar to the adjusted OR (1.7) calculated by Mitchell ef ai. (1993). Bulterys (1993)
pointed out that most of the women who smoked “after pregnancy only" also smoked
during the first few weeks of pregnancy; thus, it is not clear if the increased risk was due

to ETS exposure or to maternal active smoking early in pregnancy.
Four papers examined the association between paternal smoking and SIDS. Two
(Bergman and Wiesner, 1976; McGiashan, 1989) found that crude ORs for paternal

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

| beezbe,soz: