-79.

studies with good control of potential confounders (Landesman-Dwyer ef al., 1981:
Weitzman et al., 1992; Naeye and Peters, 1984), Weitzman et al. (1992) and Naeye and
Peters (1984) found significant behavioral impairments in children of smokers. However,
" Weitzman's outcome measure was based on mothers' teports, making it possible that the
effect of smoking was due to differences in mothers’ interpretations of their children's
behavior, rather than differences in the actual behavior of the children. This possibility is
supported by Landesman-Dwyer ef al. (1981) who reported no differences in objective
measures of children's behavior related to maternal smoking during pregnancy, but found

smoking-related differences in mothers' assessments of their children's behavior.

It is biologically plausible that smoking during pregnancy could eventually lead to
neuropsychological deficits. One hypothesis is that chronic hypoxia impairs fetal brain
development. There are several mechanisms by which maternal smoking can make the
fetus hypoxic. Maternal smoking exposes the fetus to both nicotine and carbon monoxide.
Nicotine reduces uteroplacental blood flow and carbon monoxide produces
carboxyhemoglobin, both of which reduce oxygen delivery to fetal tissues (Lehtovirta and
Forss, 1978; Cole et al., 1972). Supporting this hypothesis is the finding by Naeye and
Peters (1984) that among children of smoking mothers, those with behavioral
abnormalities had had significantly higher neonatal hemoglobin levels (a sign of chronic
fetal hypoxia) than had children with normal behavior. Furthermore, nicotine has been
shown to have direct adverse effects on the developing brain (Lichtensteiger ef al., 1988).
Although the few animal studies of exposure to mainstream or sidestream smoke that have
been reported do not provide supportive data, the large literature on the effects on animals
of prenatal exposure to carbon monoxide and nicotine do suggest that adverse impacts of

these agents on postnatal neurobehavior is biologically plausible.

In summary, there is fairly consistent evidence from reasonably well-controlled studies that
maternal smoking during pregnancy is adversely associated with measures of cognition

and behavior in children. Dose-response relationships were demonstrated in several
studies, and an adverse effect is biologically plausible. However, smoking is also known

to be strongly associated with many social and environmental characteristics that adversely

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

|

gEGZbeLSoe

i

i
|