85.

In Chinn and Rona (1991), the study was varied by using an even larger cohort of over
11,000 school children and including more covariates in the analysis, including social class,
ethnicity, and receiving school meals. No association was seen between number of
cigarettes smoked at home and height. The investigators then repeated this analysis using
their 1985 database and found that the height difference, although still negative,
diminished by a third and was no longer statistically significant. They concluded that
postnatal ETS exposure has no effect on children’s height.

Rantakallio (1983)

Rantakallio (1983) studied over 2,800 Finnish 14-year-olds, evenly divided as to prenatal
exposure status. The adjusted height decrement associated with maternal smoking during
pregnancy was approximately ~0.9 cm (estimated from a figure), consistent with estimates
calculated by other investigators. In a regression analysis that included demographic and
socioeconomic factors, prenatal exposure status, and maternal height, paternal smoking
status was negatively related to children’s height (p=0.07). The size of the standardized
coefficients for maternal smoking during pregnancy and paternal smoking were roughly
equivalent. There was no adjustment for birthweight.

Berkey et al. (1984)

Berkey ef al, (1984) examined height and height growth rate in a longitudinal study of
9,273 children aged 6-11 years (the same study is also described in Ferris ef al., 1985).
The study's main intent was to examine the health effects of air pollution. The authors
found a very significant dose-related decrease in height with increasing current maternal
cigarette consumption. Children of mothers who smoked >10 cigarettes per day were 0.7
cm shorter than children of nonsmokers, after adjusting for age, sex, parent's education,
and use of gas for cooking in the home. There was no adjustment for prenatal exposure to

maternal smoking or birthweight, thus it is likely that the effect associated with current

maternal smoking actually reflected the effect of smoking during pregnancy. The
similarity of the height decrement to decrements seen in studies of maternal smoking

during pregnancy supports this interpretation. A nonsignificant association was seen with

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

PPGSPELSOZ

|