ao

-69-

Two studies have evaluated pre-school children using the McCarthy Scales of Children's
Abilities. The McCarthy is an administered test with verbal, perceptual, quantitative,
general cognitive, memory, and motor subscales, and is a good predictor of school
performance (Kaufinan and Kaufinan, 1977). Fried and Watkinson (1990) found negative
correlations between nicotine consumption during pregnancy and all subscales, particularly
the verbal subscale (approximate 10% decrement among children of heavy smokers).
These differences were adjusted for HOME score only. The investigators also found
comparable decreases in Peabody Picture Vocabulary Test scores (a test of receptive
vocabulary) and the expressive language component of the Reynell Developmental
Language Scales, Sexton ef al. (1990) compared children born to women who quit
smoking during pregnancy with children of persistent smokers. One-third of the mothers
were "quitters" and two-thirds of the mothers had smoked throughout pregnancy.
Children of persistent smokers had adjusted scores that were two to four percent lower
than scores of children of quitters; the effect was most pronounced in the verbal and
general cognitive indices. Control variables included a variety of demographic factors,
family characteristics, maternal use of alcohol during pregnancy, maternal smoking after
pregnancy, and the child's birthweight, gestational age, and health status. Similar results
were seen using the Minnesota Child Development Inventory. Thus, in both studies of
pre-schoolers there was a pattern of decreased McCarthy scores, especially in the verbal

subscale.

The association between maternal smoking during pregnancy and impairments of
cognition and school achievement in older children are impressively consistent, although
the decrements are small and not always statistically significant. A longitudinal study of
17,000 British children found modest but statistically significant dose-related delays in
reading, math, and general ability at 7,1 1, and 16 years, and a lower level of educational
attainment at age 23 (Davie ef al. 1972; Butler and Goldstein, 1973, Fogelman, 1980;
Fogelman and Manor, 1988). The decrements were approximately halved after adjusting
for a variety of demographic factors and birthweight. In studies derived from the National
Collaborative Perinatal Project, Hardy and Mellits (1972) and Naeye and Peters (1984)

found adjusted decrements of two to four percent among children of smokers on the

EXTERNAL REVIEW DRAFT
MARCH 1995

| Seezpezsoz: