“anes

as

The Hostage Brain

BRUCE S. McEWEN AND HAROLD M. SCHMECK, JR.
ILLUSTRATED BY LYDIA KIBIUK

    
    

  
     
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
    

Vulnerability of the Brain Revealed in New Book

Many people are vaguely aware of the power of the
human bean, which has sent messages to the farthest reaches
Of the solar system, but few are aware of its vulnerability to
quirks of temperature, chemistry, infection, and physical
Fmpact. It can be captured by the flood of hormones it sends
pulsing through the body, or taken hostage by outside events
even its own thoughts.

Bruce §. McEwen, Professor and Head of the Harold
vad Margaret Milliken Hatch Laboratory of Neuroendo-
@rmology of The Rockefeller University, and Harold M.
Ameck. Js, tormer National Science Correspondent for The
York Times, have joined Forces to illuminate for the lay
hrough clear prose and striking full-color illustra-

my. Ma chee

Address

td orders to Th
ors te be billed t

 

Now Available From
The Rockefeller University Press

tions—what the brain is, how it functions, and how it is often
subverted. The creator of the unusual illustrations is Lydia
Kibiuk, a well-known medical illustrator based in Baltimore.

The Hostage Brain reveals the most recent advances
in brain research, but unlike other books on the brain, it
describes key discoveries together with the social and political
implications that surround them. It invites the reader to think
of the human brain as the organ that invented politics, philos-
ophy, all the arts, and even the uniquely human traits of
mercy and compassion. It is written to appeal to a broad
audience of adults and young people, including bright high
school students. It tempts everyone to think about their brains
and to wonder, in a more informed way than before, just why
we think and act the way we do.

 

. aug gprs ot The Hostage Brain, by Bruce §, McEwen and Harold M. Schmeck, Jr. 323 pages, 70 color illustra-
hail, -X, cloth; 0-87470-056-6, paper. Enclosed is my payment of $39.95 cloth, $19.95 paper, plus $3.00 for ship-

k or money order is drawn on a U.S. bank payable to The Rockefeller University Press.

 

City/State/Zip Code

2 ockefeller University Press, P.O. Box 5483 GPO, New York, NY 10087-5483
0 The Rockefeller University Press, Order Service, 222 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021-5405.