MORE

 

Brand Positioning Statement

How Consumers View The Brand

The MORE Brand, which offers various color, length,

and slimness configurations, is viewed as different

from all other brands of cigarettes. Importantly,
smokers are more familiar with MORE 120's than with

MORE Lights 100's, so that perceptions of MORE 120's
drive the image of the total Brand. The distinctive
color and the long, slim shape (primarily MORE 120's)

are sufficiently distinctive to impart a specific
personality to the MORE smoker. Smokers of the brand

are viewed as possessing a strong measure of independence
and strength of character, characteristics of people who
would smoke so unique a product. They are seen as
primarily women, who are self-assured, mature, confident,
sophisticated, and stylish. While some smokers view the
MORE user as representing the extremes of these character-
istics, the MORE smoker is nonetheless seen as possessing
a multi-faceted personality.

By contrast, the users of MORE's primary competition,
Virginia Slims, are viewed as having a much more shallow
personality. Smokers of Virginia Slims are perceived as
exclusively women who are overtly feminine, clothes-
conscious, and somewhat immature. While Virginia Slims'
perceptions are consistent with its positioning as a
brand for women, consumers do not perceive Virginia
Slims as strongly projecting personality traits which
help to define the kind of women who smoke the brand.

From the standpoint of product perceptions, the majority
of smokers are familiar with the unique appearance of
MORE 120's (long, slim, dark brown); however, low levels
of awareness exist with regard to MORE Lights 100's more
moderate appearance (beige, 100mm, slender). In addition,
because of its length and slow burn rate, MORE 120's is
also perceived as having a measure of value not inherent
in shorter cigarettes.

How We Want Consumers To View The Brand

MORE should be perceived by smokers as a brand family of
distinctive cigarettes that is smoked by women who are
charismatic, sophisticated, and feminine, and who ,possess
presence and personality that women admire and desire to
emulate. Her presence is defined by the expression of
her attitude about herself, her attitude toward others,
and her appearance via her clothing statement.

*?

@cnl LLEOS