How We Want Consumers To View The Brand
The MORE woman is stylish in appearance and dress, and
has a sense of class that is reflected not only in her
appearance but in her demeanor. She is her own person,
so her stylishness is a reflection of her own personality
rather than simply a display to impress others.

She has a warm and engaging personality that is not
haughty, and by her nature she comfortably interacts
with others. Her personal style has its foundation
in and is a reflection of her self-assurance.

At 25, she is a confident and enthusiastic woman whose
self-assurance draws people to her and projects her as

a leader among both men and women. Her feminine
stylishness is reflected in her attraction to contem-
porary styles with a flair appropriate to her age and
lifestyle. Her cigarette is MORE Lights 100's. At 35, she
has grown in self-assurance and maturity. She has retained
her leadership role, but as a woman, she is now sensuous and
alluring in a manner that exudes refinement and class. Her
stylishness is best reflected in designs that are elegant,
upscale and sophisticated. Her cigarette is MORE 120's.

The MORE products by their distinctive appearance should
be viewed as highly supportive of her image and allow

her to visibly express her sense of class and personal
style in her choice of a cigarette. MORE styles should
therefore be perceived as stylish and sophisticated ciga-
rettes that are a natural expression of the MORE woman's
personal style and add a dimension to her personality.

The MORE woman should be viewed as being differentiated
from Virginia Slims in that she projects a presence and
a depth of personality that women admire and desire to
emulate. The overt femininity of Virginia Slims is uni-
dimensional and expresses very little of the confidence
and overall personality desired by Stylish Segment women.
The MORE woman projects a depth of character and a
personal style that is sophisticated, charismatic,

and self~assured and is thus admired by Stylish

Segment smokers.

Prime Prospect Definition

The MORE Family is targeted to women aged 25-49 with
household incomes of $20,000+ who desire to be seen

as sophisticated, stylish in appearance and dress,
charismatic and feminine. MORE Lights 100's is targeted
to the MORE woman aged 25-34. MORE 120's is targeted to
the MORE woman aged 30-49.

LLEOS

6tnl