ae eer eG rete et me

CORONARY BLOOD FLOW IN RATS

atrial injection. In group B the carotid catheter was
advanced into the left ventricle from the very beginning,
the first set of microspheres was injected. and then the
left-ventricular catheter was pulled back into the carotid
artery under blood pressure monitoring. In this way we
ensured that the left-ventricular catheter was actually
located in the right-carotid artery during the left-atrial
injection iz: both groups and thus avoided interference
with the distribution of microspheres in the root of the
aorta or coronary arteries.

The position of the left-atrial and left-ventricular cath-
eters was always confirmed both at autopsy and by
pressure tracings. The whole surgery lasted 90 min with
45-60 min for the left-atrial cathetevization, thoracotomy
time being approximately 30-45 min. Bleeding was ab-
sent or minimal throughout the surgical procedure, and
this was confirmed at autopsy along with the absence of
pneumothorax.

Microsphere methods, Radioactive microspheres, 15
pm in diameter, labeled with “Sr and ‘Ce, were ob-
tained dry from 3M (St. Paul, MN) with a specific activity
of 10 mCi/g. They were suspended in 70% glucose solu-
tion containing 0.05% polysorbate 80 as an antiaggregant
agent and having a specific gravity approximately equal
to that of the microspheres (1, 3). Before injection, the
microspheres were mechanically and ultrasonically agi-
tated for 15 min. They were then withdrawn in a PE-50
tubing with a predetermined volume of 0.03 ml, corre-
sponding to 60,000-65,000 spheres. The tubing was
sealed, counted for 1 min before injection, and then
connected to the left-atrial or left-ventricular catheter.
In this series of experiments the number of counts per
minute was always below the level at which counting
efficiency is decreased by coincidence, so that the total
dose in the tubing could be obtained directly. The micro-
spheres were injected over 10 s and the tubing flushed
with 0.2 ml of saline. Starting 10 s before the injection,
blood was withdrawn by e Harvard pump from the left-
femoral catheter at a constant rate of 1.03 ml/min for 70
s. This rate of withdrawal assured a blood microsphere
number greater than 400 (2), so that the variability
related to the random distribution of the particles was
minimal. The values for the first and second determina-
tion averaged 901 x 96 and 999 + 136 (SD) microspheres
for group A and 949 + 144 and 1,042 + 263 (SD) micro-
spheres for group B. Blood pressure (and heart rate from
the pressure tracing) was continuously recorded before,
during, and after the injection. Two different sets of
microspheres labeled with ''Ce or °Sr were successively
injected through the left-atrial and the left-ventricular
catheter in the same rat. At the end of the experiment
the rats were killed with an overdose of pentobarbital.
The heart, the kidneys, and the brain were immediately
removed, cleaned of fat and fibrous tissues, and blotted
dry. The tissue samples were placed in plastic vials,
weighed, and counted for 5 min in a gamma-well counter
(Packard mode! 578); the blood withdrawn from the left-
femoral catheter was similarly counted and served as a
reference sample.

Calculation of blood flow and analysis of data. Blood
flows were computed from the radioactivity in each sam-
ple and the reference sample after appropriate correc-

HKG1522010

tions for decay, background, and overlapping (4, 13). The
total dose injected was estimated as the difference in
counts in the tubing before and after injection of micro-
spheres. Absolute blood flow was expressed in milliliters
per minute and relative blood flow, in milliliters per
minute per kilogram body weight for cardiac output and
in milliliters per minute per 100 g of wet tissue for organs.
Relative resistance is expressed in arbitrary units and
was obtained by dividing the meah aortic-arterial pres-
sure before each injection of microspheres by the relative
blood flow. . .

Standard deviations, i.e. variances, were used to assess
the variability of the data and were compared by the F
test. Because the F test assumes a normal distribution,
the data were tested for normality by the Wilk-Shapiro
test. In only a few instances were the data not found to
be nornial; in such cases, a logarithmic transformation
was applied and always resulted in a normal distribution.
Mean values were compared by a paired or an unpaired
? test (after transformation of the data when required).
In cases where variances showed a significant difference,
comparison of means were obtained by an unequal-vari-
ance ¢ test and a nonparametric test (Mann-Whitney
test) (15). Statistical significance was determined as P
< 0.05. All calculations (blood flows and derived values,
or statistical tests) as well as storage of data were per-
formed by the Prophet computer system using a specifi-
cally designed program and the Prophet statistical pack-
age.

H95

RESULTS

The body weight was equal in both groups (307 + 28
in group A and 302 + 27 in group B; P = NS).

The mean values and variability of the general hemo-
dynamic indices (mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and
cardiac output) were similar in both groups and for each
determination irrespective of the site of administration
or the order of injection. The results obtained from the
left-atrial injection were therefore pooled together as
were those obtained from the Jeft-ventricular injection,
thus forming two groups of data.

The variability of mean arterial pressure, heart rate,
and cardiac output was not significantly different be-
tween left-atrial or left-ventricular injection series (Table
1).

Despite the similarity in systemic hemodynamic indi-
ces, the dispersion of coronary blood flow measurements
TABLE 1, Variability of blood flow

determinations with left-atrial or left. _
ventricular microsphere injection in rats

 

 

 

 

Left- Arial Left: Ventricular P
Injection Injection
MAP, minHg 105 & 19 (212%) 104 + 19 (219%) NS
HR, beata/min 379441 (4NH) 366 + 38 (210%) NS
CO, ml-min"'-kg' 213 & 38 (218%) 208 26 (219%) NS

 

Values are means + SD; values in parentheses ate SD expressed as
& of mean (coefficient of variation). n = 20. MAP, mean arterial
pressure; HR, heart rate; CO, cardiac output. P value for comparison
of variance calculated by F test: NS, not significant. No statistically
significant difference in mean values was found between the two groups
(unpaired { test).

 

a