HK51522009

Importance of injection site for coronary blood
flow determinations by microspheres in rats

PIERRE WICKER AND ROBERT C. TARAZI |
Research Division, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio 44106

WICKER, PIERRE, AND Ropert C. Tanazi. Importence of
injection site for coronary blood flow determinations by micra-
spheres in rats. Am. J. Physiol. 242 (Heart Circ. Physiol. 11):
H94-H97, 1982.—Because coronary blood flow (CBF) detes-
Tinations require that blood and microspheres be uniformly
mixed in the root of the aorta, we developed a technique of left-
atrial (LA) catheterization in rats and compared the variability
of results obtained by LA injection and left-ventricular (LV)
injection as regards systemic [cardiac output (CO)), proximal
(coronary), and distal (renal, cerebral) flows in anesthetized
animals. CBF values averaged 410 + 224 and 358 + $9 (SD) ml.
min™’.100 g”’ from LV and LA injection, respectively, or 5.7 +
2.9 and 4.9 + 1.3 (SD) %CO. The variability with LA injection
was significantly lower than with LV injection as shown by the
marked differences in standard deviations obtained with the
two methods (224 vs. 99 ml-min™'.100 g~ or 2:9 vs. 1.3 SCO,
P > 0.01). In contrast, no significant difference in variability
was found for either CO or more distal regional flows. These
results indicate that LV injections might be adequate for sys-
temic flow and regional flows to relatively distal beds but that
accurate measurements of CBF require LA injection of micro-
spheres.

cardiac output; regional blood flow; left-atrial catheterization

 

 

SINCE ITS INTRODUCTION in 1967 by Rudolph ahd Hey-
mann (13), the microsphere method has beeh extensively
used because of its simplicity and the possibility of de-
termining regional as well as systemic blood flow even in
small animals like rats (7-9, 11, 14). However, the accu-
racy of results from microsphere injections depends fun-
damentally on the uniform mixing of microspheres in the
bloodstream; in that respect the site of injection may be
critical, particularly for coronary blood flow mieasure-
ments. Because of alleged difficulties of left-atrial cathe-
terization, most studies of rats have utilized a left-ven-
tricular approach, assuming in the process that mixing
was adequate (7, 9, 12, 14). However, experiments in dogs
have shown that left-ventricular injections give less de-
pendable results and more marked differences in the
distribution of microspheres to the heart than injections
into the left atrium (2, 5). Moreover our preliminary
experiments in rats did show a high variability of coro-
nary blood flow measurements with left-ventricular in-
jections. We therefore developed a technique of left-atrial
catheterization in rats thet could be performed with no
major technical difficulties. This allowed us to compare
the variability of blood flow detezminations made by left-
atrial injections with that of measurements obtained by
left-ventricle injection, as regards systemic (cardiac out-

He

put) and regional (coronary, renal, cerebral) flows. The
results show that /) intra-atrial injections lead more
consistently to adequate dispersion of the microspheres
in the aortic root than do intraventricular injections and
2) the intra-atrial-injection technique must be preferred
for precise determinations of coronary blood flow because
of the lower variability resulting from better mixing of
the microspheres.

METHODS

Experiments were carried out in anesthetized rats sep-
arated into two groups. In group A (n = 10) the micro-
spheres were injected first into the left atrium and sub-
sequently into the left ventricle. In group B (n = 10) the
left-ventricular injection was performed first followed by
the intra-atrial injection. The sequence of studies was
regularly alternated so that one animal of group A (left-
atrial injection first) was followed by one of group B
(left-ventricular injection first).

Preparation of rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were anes-
thetized with pentobarbital sodium (30 mg/kg ip), and
anesthesia was subsequently maintained with small doses
(6-10 mg/kg ip) given as required approximately every
30-45 min. The rats were intubated through the mouth
and ventilated with room air. The same surgical sequence
was used in all animals whatever the order of injection.

First, a catheter was positioned in the left atrium. The
left-atrial appendage was exposed by thoracotomy
through the third left intercostal space, the pericardium
was opened, and a PE-10 tubing was advanced through
a small cut of the lateral wall of the appendage, secured
in place, and passed through the chest wall along the
sternum. The chest was closed after lung expansion by
positive-intratracheal pressure while a negative pressure
was applied to the thoracic cavity. The animal was dis-
connected from the respirator, and the rest of the exper-
iment was performed while the rat was breathing spon-
taneously.

Two catheters (made up of a 3- to 4-cm-long Teflon
tubing inserted into a PE-50 tubing) were then advanced
3 and 3.6 cm in the aorta through a right- and left-
femoral-artery cannulation, respectively. The right-fem-
oral catheter was connected to a Micron MP-15 trans-
ducer for blood pressure recording. The left catheter was
used to withdraw blood. A PE-10 tubing catheter was
finally inserted into he right-carotid artery.

In group A the carotid catheter was advanced into the
left ventricle under blood pressure control after the left-

0363-6135/82/0000-0000801.25 Copyright © 1982 the American Physiological Society