PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A. CONFIDENTIAL
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Richmond, Virginia

To: Melissa Jeltema Date: May 19, 1994
From: Kimberly Singh «No ,
Subject: Project Case Compilation of "Filter Material" Responses

The panel was composed of ten employees, five females and five males. Three of the
women were given the paper filter, while two received plastic filters. The reverse was
given to the men. The test took place on Thursday, May 12 and on Friday, May 13.
We did not originally plan for two days but due to “technical difficulties", the filters for
the superslim cigarettes were not ready until Friday. Therefore, those smokers
participated on that day, while all the other smokers performed the test on Thursday.
One filter was given to each person and they were instructed to use this filter for the
day and if for some reason they needed another one, they could receive a new one.

The responses that we received from the one-on-one interviews have been compiled
below.

The overwhelming response for the open-ended question of “comments/problems/issues"
was the functionality of the filter. With the exception of one person, all respondents
experienced difficulty in fitting the filter on the cigarette. Other comments were: the
RTD was decreased; the filter made the cigarette too strong; the idea of putting a filter on
each cigarette before smoking is a "pain", the filter made it difficult to light the cigarette;
and, the filter made the circumference of the cigarette larger than what is accustomed to
being felt while smoking.

As far as the "preferred" material, four participants out of the five that used the plastic

filter would prefer that type of material verses the paper. The female that did not choose

the plastic did not like the "slick" feel of the material. Another reason was that the

cigarette could possibly slip out of the mouth if not being held tightly with your lips. The

others said the feel of the plastic was pleasing. They also liked the sturdiness or firmness

of the plastic, and the lip release was good. This question was only asked to the plastic
ter users.

The paper filter users did not mention any particular thing that they liked about it, but

also did not mention any dislikes, with the exception of one person that said the filter
became "grubby" by handling it so much.

Each person used the original filter given to them for the entire day, with the
exception of one paper user. The amount of cigarettes smoked during the day, for
each participant, ranged from 5 to 40. The person that requested a new filter used
the first one for 8 cigarettes and the second paper filter was used for 11 cigarettes.

O8S8686 TS0e

BS

DOC CODE: P0621