ILLINOIS WHOLESALER LETTER #3

October 12, 1993

Gale A. Held, Director

State Prevention Systems Program
Center for Substance Abuse Prevention
Rockwall II Building, 9th Floor

5600 Fishers Lane

Rockville, Marylarid 20857

Dear Ms, Held:

As a wholesaler in Minois, I am very disturbed about the Department of Health and
Human Services’ (HHS) proposed rules regarding the sale or distribution of tobacco
products to minors under Section 1926 of the Public Health Service Act. I would like to
take this opportunity to articulate some of my concerns.

As you may know, the Illinois state legislature has already dealt effectively with this issue
by attaching criminal, penalties to the sale or distribution of tobacco products to minors.
Furthermore, retailers, wholesalers and other businesses in the state work very hard to
ensure that they comply with the law. I am offended that HHS assumes we have fallen
down on the job and has decided to take matters into its own hands (without the consent
of Congress) by proposing new, excessive regulations.

How does HHS propose to pay for these regulations? On the backs of small businesses
and retailers who already carry a tremendous regulatory burden. HHS estimates that the
proposed rules will cost $150 million in compliance law-enforcement costs, As I
understand it, HHS suggests that these costs be passed onto retailers in the form of
licensing fees, These fees are unfair and could potentially jeopardize the health of
Illinois’ struggling small business community.

Finally, 1 strongly disagree with the use of children and "private entities" for law
enforcement purposes. How can HHS suggest that young children be used in “sting”
operations that have them break the law? It is not only counter-intuitive but it is also
dangerous. As for "private entities", I have faith that the law enforcement officials in
Illinois can do the job of enforcing the laws. I do not want to put that responsibility in
the hands of private vigilantes.

Thank you for taking my comments into account.

Sincerely,

TH 573-2103