VoL. 62, 1994

5004

TNF ACTIVITY (U/ml)

 

 

TIME (h)

FIG. 3. Kinetics of induction of TNF activity by SLT-I- or LPS-
treated peritoneal macrophages from C3H/HeN end C3H/HeJ mice.
Approximately 10° cells per ml were stimulated with purified SLT-[
(100 ng/ml) or LPS (10 ng/ml) and incubated at 37°C in humidified 5%
CO,. At the indicated time points, culture supernatants were collected
and TNF activity was quantitated in quadruplicate samples by the L929
lysis assay described in Materials and Methods. The data shown are the
averages of 12 determinations from three separate experiments. P was
<0.001 when comparing SLT-I- and LPS-treated C3H/HeJ macro-
phages by a paired ¢ test. Symbols: @, LPS-treated macrophages from
C3H/HeN mice; ll, SLT-I-treated macrophages from C3H/HeN mice;
O, S¥-T-L-treated macrophages from C3H/HeJ mice; O, LPS-treated
macrophages from C3H/HeJ mice.

C3H/HeN macrophages, and the levels continued to rise unti
peaking at 6 h of stimulation. At the times cf optimal soluble
TNF production (12 to 15 h), the levels of TNF-a transcripts
were diminished. This difference in kinetics of mRNA and
protein production probably represents the time necessary for
posttranslational processing and secretion of TNF. In contrast,
treatment of C3H/HeJ macrophages with an equivalent dose of
SLT-I induced much lower levels of TNF transcripts, although
the kinetics of induction were similar to that scen in C3H/HeN
cells. In accordance with earlier studies examining TNF
mRNA induction in response to LPS (7, 62, 64, 66), we found
that TNF-a mRNA levels were rapidly induced in C3H/HeN
macrophages by treatment with LPS, peaking at ~1 bh and
rapidly declining thereafter (data not shown). Thus, the kinetic
profiles of TNF production mediated by SLT's or LPS differ at
both the transcriptional and translational or posttransiational
levels.

SLT and LPS dose responses for murine macrophage {NF
production, C3H/HeN macrophages were incubated with 10-
fold dilutions of purified SLT-I, SLT-II, and LPS for 18 h, and
TNF activity in culture supernatants was assessed by the L929
cytotoxicity assay (Fig. 5). We detected low levels of TNF
activity in untreated cells. The SLTs were less effective than
LPS at inducing TNF activity from murite macrophages,
~10-fold-higher doses of SLTs were necessary to induce
equivalent TNF activities mediated by LPS. The dose re-

 

SLE-INDUCED CYTOKINE EXPRESSION 5089

A. TNF
Control
Sti wo ero FO
B. GAPDH
Control ar = «*
ui — -  — 7 we
0.5 15 3 6 3 18 36

C

—~@— = SLT-, C3H/HeN

 

5 —O— untreated, CIH/HeN
o ~—H_  SLT-, C3H/Hed

6

£

a

2

Le

Zz

E

£

Q

°

0 10 20 30 40
Time (h)

FIG. 4. Kinetics of TNF-c transcriptional activation in CSH/HeN
and C3H/HeJ macrophages stimulated with SLT-I. Three micrograms
of total cytoplasmic RNA extracted from untreated (control) C3H/
HeN macrophages and from macrophages treated with purified SLT-I
(106 ng/ml) for the indicated time points (0.5 to 36 h) were transferred
to nylon filters and hybridized to P-labeled cDNA probes specific for
murine TNF-a (A) or GAPDH (B). Prior to exposing the blots to
X-ray film, the radioactivity bound to the blots was directly counted for
1h with a Betascope 603 blot analyzer, and the ratio of counts
hybridizing to TNF-« to those of GAPDH mRNA was determined at
each time point (C).

sponses for TNF production by SLT-I and SLT-II were not
significantly different except at the highest toxin dase (1 g/ml)
tested.

The concentrated purified SLT preparations used in this
study were nonreactive in the Lirmzfzs amoebocyte lysate assay
and were subsequently diluted at least 40- to 50-fold in
endotoxin-free media prior to addition to cells. However,
earlier studies have shown that macrophages may be stimu-
lated in vitro to produce TNF in response to picogram
quantities of LPS (64), We wished, therefore, to ensure that
the TNF activity we measured following treatment of macro-
phages with SLTs was not due to the presence of minute
quantities of endotoxin contaminants in the toxin preparations.
We assessed the capacity of macrophages derived from LPS-
responsive C3H/HeN mice to express TNF activity following
stimulation with SLT (100-ng/ml) or LPS (5-ng/ml) prepara-
tions which had been pretreated with the drug polymyxin B.
Polymyxin B binds to the lipid A moiety of endotoxin and
inhibits many of its endotoxic activities, including the ability to
elicit TNF activity from macrophages at LPS doses up to ~10
ng/ml (29), Pretreatment of LPS with polymyxin B inhibited
TNF-inducing activity, while the identical treatment of SLTs
did not affect the subsequent stimulation of TNF activity from
macrophages (Table 1), These data suggest that the reproduc-
ible induction of TNF activity from murine macrophages by
treatment with SLTs is not duc to minute quantities of
contaminating endotoxin.