eee eee

VOL. £2, 1994

DISCUSSION

Studies on the role of Shiga toxin and SLTs in pathogenesis
have focused primarily on the potent cytotoxic activity of the
toxins, and indeed, direct toxin-mediated cytotoxicity may be
an important component in colonic ulceration and the subse-
quent vascular damage in the central nervous system and
kidneys characteristic of human infection with SLT-producing
bacteria. Recent studies have, however, documented the im-
portance of proinflammatory cytokines in sensitizing Gb,-
expressing target cells to the cytopathic effect of SLTs (33, 34,
38, 59). A number of bacterial toxins, inchiding Bacillus
anthracis lethal toxin (19), Clostridium difficile toxins A and B
(16), E. coli hemolysin (8), Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin A
(37), Staphylococcus aureus toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (23,
44), and Vibrio cholerae cholera toxin (9), have been shown to
induce cytokine expression from monocytesymacrophages, We
have, therefore, focused on the interaction of SLTs with
murine macrophages, cells which regulate immune responsive-
ness, in part, by producing multiple pleiotropic cytokines.
Murine macrophages are approximately 10° to 10° times more
refractory to the direct cytotoxic action of SLTs than toxin-
sensitive cell lines primarily of epithelial cell origin. Earlier
studies showed a direct correlation between levels af Gh;
membrane expression and sensitivity to SLT cytotoxicity (24,
58). We show here that macrophage resistance to SLT toxic
action is due, at least in part, to reduced levels of toxin receptor
expression in macrophage membranes.

Although macrophages are not killed by treatment with
physiologically relevant doses of the toxins, thcy do respond by
producing elevated levels of the proinflammatory cytokines
TNF-a, IL-1e, and IL-6. These findings are significant in light
of earlier studies showing that human EC become exquisitively
sensitive to the cytotoxic action of SLTs when coincubated with
TNF-a or IL-1, We have shown that EC probably do not
contribute to their own demise; that is, they do not produce
elevated levels of TNF-a or IL-1 when stimulated with purified
SLTs in vitro (57). However, the tissue damage seen in
dysenteric patients, or which occurs after the administration of
purified SLTs to animals, is frequently characterized by an
inflammatory cell influx into the sites af damage. Thus, resi-
dent macrophage-like cells (e.g., mesangial cells or astrocytes)
or infiltrating monocytic cells may contribute to the develop-
ment of vascular lesions in glomeruli or central nervous system
tissue by producing elevated levels of cytokines. In support of
this hypothesis, Harel et al. (20) injected TNF-chlorampheni-
col acetyltransferase-transgenic mice with purified SLT-I and
noted a marked induction of TNF which was specifically
limited to the kidneys. Earlier studies demonstrated that tox
administration to mice resulted in tissue damage limited to
renal cortical tubules (55, 61). Thus, the development of HUS
and vascular Icsions at other sites may involve multiple signals;
tissues damaged by circulating SLTs may contain target cells
expressing high levels of Gb, and resident or infiltrating cells
which produce cytokines in response to the toxins.

In the studies reported here, we have used LPS, a potent
cytokine-eliciting agent, for comparative purposes. Although
the macrophage cytokine response to purified SLTs is icss
vigorous than that to LPS, it should be noted that Shigella spp.
and enterahemarthagic £. coli mediate considerable damage
to the epithelial lining of the large intestine and patients with
bloody diarrhea or HUS are frequently endotoxemic (30). In
vitra studies have shown that astrocytes, mesangial cells, and
renal tubular epithelial cells produce TNF in response to
stimulation with LPS (5, 25, 32). It is not unreasonable,
therefore, to speculate that multiple bactcrial components may

 

SLT-INDUCED CYTOKINE EXPRESSION S091

contribute to the development at EC damage seen in vivo.
Studies designed to examine the capacity of SLTs and LPS to
induce cytokines in an additive or synergistic fashion are
currently under way.

At present, neither the holotoxin subunit(s) responsible for
binding nor the precise ligand(s) recognized by SLTs on
murine macrophages is known. However, given the paucity of
Gb, in macrophage membranes, the data presented here raise
the intriguing possibility that SLTs may interact with receptors
other than Gb; to produce a reproducible and quantifiable
outcome, i.e., cytokine production. In addition to our studies,
Cohen et al. (13) used fluorescence-activated cell sorter anal-
ysis to show that purified SLT-I bound to human tonsillar T
tymphocytes and Jurkat (human T-lymphoblast) cclls although
Gb; was undetectable in the membranes of these ceils, Al-
though the functional significance of SLT-I binding to T
lymphocytes was not addressed, cell viability was not affected
by toxin binding. Licastro et al. (31) recently noted that the
plant toxin ricin, which shares the same N-glycosidase activity
as the A subunits of Shiga toxin and SLTs, elicited TNF-a and
IL-18 production from human peripheral bload monocytes,
suggesting that some degree of toxin enzymatic activity may be
necessary to induce cytokine expression. Experiments designed
to examine whether mutations introduced into the conserved
amino acid sequences defining the active enzymatic sites of
SLTs will affect cytokine-inducing capabilities are under way.

The responsiveness of murine cells to a variety of endotoxic
activities (e.g., macrophage production of TNF-a, splenocyte
proliferation in response to LPS, anti-hapten antibody produc-
tion in response to hapten-LPS conjugates) is under genetic
control (reviewed in reference 60). C3H/HeJ mice differ from
the syngencic C3H/HeN strain at a locus on chromosome 4
designated ips, which renders the C3H/HeJ animals specifically
hyporesponsive to the endotoxic activities of some forms of the
LPS molecule, The precise nature of the mutation responsible
for the LPS-hyporesponsive phenotype remains to be eluci-
dated, but 4 number of studies have supported the concept that
the ips defect probably involves an alteration in transmem-
brane signaling in response to LPS binding at the membrane.
We show here that, unlike the phenomenon of LPS hypore-
sponsiveness, TNF activity was consistently induced by purified
SLT-I from C3H/HeJ macrophages, although the levels of
TNF produced were reduced compared with the activity
induced by SLT-I by using syngeneic LPS responder cells.
Cytokine production induced by purified SLT preparations was
probably not due to minute quantities of contaminating LPS
since polymyxin B failed to reduce TNF-a production by
C3H/HeN macrophages stimulated with SLT-I, Taken to-
gether, these findings suggest that LPS and SLTs may utilize
different pathways of transmembrane signaling to induce TNF
expression. in support of the concept of alternative signaling
pathways leading to cytokine production, Bazzoni et al. (6)
recently demonstrated that exposure to UV light induced the
expression of TNF mRNA and protein from both C3H/HeN
and C3H/HeJ macrophages. Interestingly, by using purified
SLT-I as a probe for the detection of Gb;, we noted differences
in Gb, levels in C3H/HeN and C3H/HeJ macrophages. Earlier
studies using galactose oxidase labeling and thin-layer chroma-
tography techniques on gangliosides and neutral glycolipids
from LPS-responsive and LPS-hyporesponsive B lymphocytes
demonstrated minor quantitative differences and major surface
accessibility differences in glycolipids between the two strains
(12, 63). Differences in glycolipid expression and orientation in
the membrane may, therefore, contribute to the LPS-hypore-
sponsive phenotype as well as to the reduced levels of TNF