5086 TESH ET AL.

SLT-IL. On the basis of the collective results of these in vitro
studies, we hypothesized that an immunologic component may
be operative in the pathogenesis of dysenteric disease and the
systemic sequelac associated with infection with SLT-produc-
ing bacteria (56). In addition to their pleiotropic systemic
effects, cytokines produced by inflammatory cells in response
to SLTs or endotoxin may act locally to exacerbate EC damage
which is characteristic of S. dysenteriae type 1 or enterohem-
orrhagic E. coli infections. To test this hypothesis, we have
carried out comparative analyses of the capacity of purified
SLTs or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) ta elicit proinflammatory
cytokine proteins and TNF-« mRNA from macrophages stim-
ulated in vitro. In comparison with toxin-sensitive Vero cells,
thioglycolate-elicited murine peritoneal macrophages were
relatively refractory to the cytotoxic action of SLTs. Despite
the fact that murine macrophages expressed low ta undetect-
able levels of the toxin receptor Gb, SLTs were effective
inducers of TNF and IL-6 expression, but elevated levels of
immunoreactive IL-lx were detectable only after prolonged
exposure of the cells to the toxins. In comparison with SLTs,
equivalent doses of LPS induced significantly higher levels of
ail three cytokines. The kinetics of cytokine production in
response to treatment with SLTs or LPS also differed. The
expression of elevated levels of TNF-a end IL-6 by macro-
phages in response to treatment with SLTs was consistently
delayed compared with the response mediated by treatment
with LPS. Macrophages derived from the LPS-hyporespansive
mouse strain C3H/HeJ produced soluble TNF when stimu-
lated with purified SLTs but not when stimulated with LPS.
Finally, pretreatment of LPS with polymyxin B reduced the
ability of LPS to elicit TNF production but failed to affect TNF
production induced by SLTs. These data suggest that SLTs and
LPS may utilize separate signaling pathways to induce cytokine
expression in murine macrophages.

MATERIALS AND METHODS

Toxin preparations. SLT-I and SLT-IE were expressed from
Escherichia coli DHSa transformed with plasmids containing
the toxin operons under control of the [7 promoter. The sit-f
operon on a 3.5-kb EcoRI-EcoRV fragment was subcloned
from pJN25 (41) into the EcoRI-Hinclll site of pBluescript
SK~ (Stratagene, LaJolla, Calif.) and designated pCKS112
{gift of Clare Schmitt, Uniformed Services University of the
Health Sciences). The sit-JT operon was derived from plasmid
pLMS2.2 (53). Subsequently, the recombinant strains were
transformed with the plasmid pGP1-2 containing the ther-
moinducible T7 polymerase gene ($4). These strains were
maintained under BL3+EK1 containment (15). SLT-I and
SLT-IT in crude bacterial lysates were purified by sequential
ion-exchange, chromatofocusing, and immunoaffinity chroma-
tography as described previously (49, 55). Toxins were assessed
for homogeneity by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-polyacry!-
amide gel electrophoresis with silver staining and Western
blots (immunoblots). Toxin preparations were passed through
ActiClean Etox columns (Sterogene Bioseparations, Arcadia,
Calif.) to remove trace endotoxin contaminants and contained
<O.1 ng of endotoxin per ml as determined by the Limulus
amoebocyte lysate assay. Purified LPS derived from £. coli
O111:B4 was purchased from Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis,
Mo.

Mice. C3H/HeN (/ps"/Ips") mice were purchased from Tac-
onic Farms, Germantown, N.Y. C3H/Hel (tps“/Ips“) mice were
purchased from the Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine.
Mice were 4 to & weeks old when used in these experiments,
Mice were housed in single-vendor taminar-flow facilities on a

INFECT. TMMUN.

12-h light-12 h dark cycle and given access to water and chow
ad libitum throughout the course of the experiments. The
experiments performed here were conducted according to
principles set forth in the Guide for the Care and Use of
Laboratory Animals (40).

Cell culture and stimulation. Mice were injected intraperi-
toneally with sterile 3% thioglycolate. Four days later, perito-
neal exudative ccils were collected by lavage with Hanks’
balanced salt solution containing heparin (350 pg/ml). Cell
suspensions were adjusted to 10° cells per ml in Eagle’s
minimum essential medium (EMEM; Gibco, Madison, Wis.)
containing penicillin (100 U/ml), streptomycin (100 pg/ml),
gentamicin (50 wg/m!), and 5% fctal bovine scrum (Intergen,
Purchase, N.Y.) in sterile culture dishes (35 by 10 mm; Becton
Dickinson Labware, Oxnard, Calif.). After 2h of incubation at
37°C in humidified 5% CO., cach culture dish was washed
twice with fresh EMEM to remove nonadherent cells. After
overnight incubation, the medium was replaced with fresh
complete EMEM containing various doses of purified SLTs or
LPS and incubated at 37°C in 5% CO, for the time periods
indicated in the text. In some experiments, macrophages were
stimulated with SLTs or LPS which had been preincubated at
room temperature with 20 yg of polymyxin B (Sigma) per ml
for 6h prior to addition to the cells. At each time point, culture
supernatants and cells were collected [or cytokme mRNA and
protein quantitation. Vero cells were purchased from the
American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Md., and main-
tained in EMEM plus 5% fetal bovine serum. Human umbil-
ical vein EC (gift of David J. Silverman, University of Mary-
land School of Medicine) were derived and cultured as
described by Santucci et al. (51).

Cytotoxicity assay. Murine peritoneal macrophages (~10°
cells per well) or Vero cells (~10* cells per well) were cultured
in 96-well microtiter plates for 24 h at 37°C in humidified CO).
Toxin dilutions were prepared in complete EMEM, and 100 ul
of cach dilution was added to six separate wells. Cells were
incubated with toxins for 18, 36, and 48 h, at which time the dye
3-[4.5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide
(MTT; Sigma) (39) was added and incubation was continued
for anothcr 2 h. The celfs were lysed, and the insoluble
formazan dye was extracted for 4 h at 37°C with lysis buffer
(50% N.N-dimethyl formamide and 20% SDS [pH 4.7]). The
As7y Was measured. Untreated macrophages and Vero cells
were used as viability contrals, and blank wells were used
to determine background absorbance. Percentage viability
was calculated as [(As7, of treated cells — background)/(A57y
of untreated cells — background)} x 100.

Membrane glycolipid quantitation. Total lipid extracts from
murine nlacrophages, Vero cells, and human EC as well as
purified glycolipid controls were subjected to chromatography
on aluminum-backed silica thin-layer chromatography plates
(Silica Gel 60; Merck AG, Darmstadt, Germany) with CHCI,-
CH,OH-aqueous KCI (5:4:1} as described previously (49).
Following chromatographic separation of the glycolipids, the
plates were coated with 0.1% polyisobutylmethacrylate (Poly-
science, Warrington, Pa.), air dried, and sprayed with Tris-
buffered saline-bovine serum albumin (TBS-BSA; 0.1 M Tris-
HCl [pH 7.4], 0.15 M NaCl, 1% BSA). The plates were treated
with purified SLT-I in TBS-BSA at 4°C for 18 h. After
extensive washing, the plates were sequentially treated with a
monoclonal antibody directed against SLT-I B_ subunits
(moncelonal antibody 13C4) (52) and ‘I-labeled goat anti-
mouse immunoglobulin G secondary antibody. Specific toxin
binding to glycolipid bands was visualized by autoradiography.
Relative amounts of toxin-binding glycolipids in the extracts
were estimated by comparison with serial dilutions of purified