5088 ‘TESH ET AL.

A 8

12345678

eae lt

FIG. 2, Characterization of SLT-binding glycolipids derived from
murine macrophages. (A) Orcinol-stained glycolipids; (B) glycolipids
separated identically to those in panel A and subsequently treated with
purified SLT-1, anti-SLT-1 monoclonal antibody; and '*T-labeled
secondary antibody. Toxin binding was visualized by autoradiography.
Lanes: 1, puritied glycolipid standards; 2, glycolipids derived trom
Vero cells (1 mg); 3, human umbilical vein EC (3 mg); 4, C3H/HeJ
macrophages (10 mg); 5, C3H/HeN macrophages (10 mg); 6, purified
Gb; (1 pg); 7, purified Gb, (0.1 yg); 8, purified Gb, (0.01 pg). The film
was intentionally overexposed to visualize the faint toxin-binding bands
in macrophage extracts.

 

toxins tested (1.0 wg per well) manifested cytotoxicity. Macro-
phages, which have been demonstrated to be key cellular
mediators of the immune response to bacteria and bacterial
antigens, were not killed in vitro by treatment with SLT-T or
SLT-II over a broad concentration range.

Quantitative analysis of toxin receptor expression in murine
macrophages. Numerous studies have detnonstrated that neu-
tral glycolipids of the globo series, found in the membranes of
a variety of mammalian cells, serve as toxin receptors and that
the level of toxin receptor expression may be a critical deter-
minant of susceptibility to cytotoxicity (10, 24, 35). Binding of
the holotoxin:to the glycolipid Gb, results in receptor-medi-
ated endocytosis, intracellular trafficking of the toxin to the
trans-Golgi network and endoplasmic reticulum, and, ulti-
mately, the translocation of the enzymatic A subunit into the
cytosol where ribosome inactivation occurs (50), Purified
SLT-I and monoclonat antibody directed against SLT-I were
used to detect and compare the levels of toxin-binding glyco-
lipids present in murine macrophages, Vero cells (toxin-
sensitive cells; high Gb, expression), and human umbilical vein
EC (relatively toxin-insensitive cells, low Gb, expression).
Total membrane plycolipid extracts and glycolipid standards
were separated by thin-layer chromatography, and dilutions of
purified Gb, separated on the same plates were used to
quantitate glycolipids present in the membranes of each cell
type (Fig. 2). In accordance with earlier studics (58), we
estimated that Vero cells (Fig. 2, lance 2) and EC (lane 3)
contained ~80 nmol of Gb, per mg of cells and 100 pmal of
Gb, per mg of cells, respectively. Macrophages derived from
the LPS-hyporesponsive C3H/HeJ mouse strain (lane 4) ex-
pressed undetectable levels of the toxin-binding glycolipid
(<L0 pmol of Gb; per mg of cells) in this assay. Macrophages
derived from C3H/HeN mice (lane 5) contained barely detect-
able levels of Gb, (~20 pmol of Gb; per mg of cells). Both
C3H/HeN and C3H/HeJ macrophages possessed an additional
toxin-binding glycolipid which migrated with purified Gb,.
These data support the concept that the relative resistance of
murine macrophages to the cytotoxic action of SLT-I and
SLT-II may be due, in part, to low levels of Gb; in the
macrophage membranes,

INFECT. IMMUN.

Kinetics of TNF production by murine macrophages stim-
ulated with SLTs or LPS. We and others showed that pre- or
coincubation of human venous EC with recombinant human
TNF-« and purified Shiga toxin or SLTs sensitized the EC to
cytotoxicity (33, 58, 59), Furthermore, human EC do not
secrete elevated levels of TNF-a when stimulated with suble-
thal concentrations of purified Shiga toxin (57). These data
suggest that although cytokines may upregulate the expression
of Gb, by EC and participate in the development of vascular
injury characteristic of HUS and other postdiarrheal sequelae,
EC may not be the source of the cytokines. In light of the
report by Barrett et al. (3) that macrophages respond to SLT-IL
with elevated TNF activity and histopathological studies show-
ing an influx of inflammatory cells into sites of toxin-mediated
damage (46-48), we examined whether macrophages produce
TNF and other proinflammatory cytokines when stimulated
with the toxins. It should also be noted that patients with
bloody diarrhea and HUS are often endotoxemic (30). Unlike
SLT-macrophage interactions leading to cytokine production,
which have not been systematically examined, it is now well
documented that LPS is a potent inducer of proinflammatory
cytokine production from macrophages in vitro and systemi-
cally in vivo (38, 45). We therefore quantitated and compared
cytokine production by macrophages derived from LPS-re-
sponsive and LPS-hyporesponsive mice in response to treat-
ment with purified LPS or SLTs.

The kinetics of TNF production by murine macrophages in
response to treatment with purified SLT-I or LPS was mea-
sured by the L929 cytotoxicity assay (Fig. 3). TNF activity was
rapidly induced from C3H/HeN macrophages treated with LPS
(10 ng/ml), showing a slight elevation at the 0.5- and 1-h time
points and a major elevation at the 3-h time point. TNF activity
remained elevated throughout the course of the experiment
(36 h). As expected, macrophages derived from the C3H/HeJ
mouse strain did not produce elevated levels of TNF activity
following treatment with LPS. In contrast to the rapid induc-
tion of TNF activity from C3H/HeN macrophages by LPS, the
induction of TNF activity by SLT-I was significantly delayed.
After 9 h of stimulation with purified SLT-I (100 ng/ml), low
levels of TNF activity (25 to 50 U/ml) were detected in
C3H/HeN macrophage culture supernatants. After 12 h, TNF
activity levels began to rise and reached near-maximal levels
(~200 U/ml) by 13 h. TNF production in response to SLT-1
then remained elevated throughout the course of the experi-
ment but did not reach the same levels induced by a 10-fold-
lower dose of LPS at any time point. In comparison with results
of treatment with LPS, C3H/HeJ macrophages produced low
levels of TNF activity (~50 U/ml) in response to stimulation
with purified SLT-I (P < 0.001 by paired ¢ tests).

The control of TNF synthesis and secretion is complex,
involving regulation of transcriptional, translational, and post-
translational processes. Beutler et al. (7} used nuclear tran-
scription assays and Northern (RNA) blot analysis of mRNA
extracted from C3H/HeN and C3H/HeJ macrophages to show
that the LPS-hyporesponsive cells did not produce elevated
levels of TNF mRNA in response to stimulation with 10 ng of
LPS per ml. In conjunction with the experiments to character-
ize the induction of TNF activity in murine macrophages
stimulated with SLT-I, we also extracted total cytoplasmic
RNA from the cells at each time point to examine the kinetics
of TNF-c mRNA induction. Equivalent amounts of RNA were
blotted onto nylon membranes and hybridized to **P-labeled
TNF-x (Fig. 4A) or GAPDH probes (Fig. 4B), and induction
of TNF-c mRNA was compared with mRNA levels of the
housekeeping gene (Fig. 4C). At the earliest time point tested
(0.5 h), TNF-« transcript levels were elevated in SLT-I-treated