INFECTION AND IMMUNTTY, Nov. 1994, p. 5085-31104
0019-9567/94/$04.00-+0
Copyright © 1994, American Society for Microbiology

Vol. 62. No. LL

Purified Shiga-Like Toxins Induce Expression of Proinflammatory
Cytokines from Murine Peritoneal Macrophages

VERNON L., TESH,'* BELAKERE RAMEGOWDA,' axp JAMES E. SAMUEL!

Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Texas A&M University Health Science Center,
College Station, Texas 77843-1114,' and MicroCarb, Inc., Gaithersburg, Manland 208707

Received 13 April 1994/Returned for modification 22 June 1994/Acccpted 18 August 1994

Infections with Shiga toxin-producing Shigella dysenteriae type 1 and Shiga-like toxin (SLT)-producing
Escherichia coli cause outbreaks of bloody diarrhea in which patients are at risk for developing life-threatening
complications involving the renal and central nervous systems. Histopathology studies and in vitro experi-
ments suggested that the toxins damage toxin receptor-expressing endothelial cells (EC) lining glomerular and
central nervous system capillaries. In the presence of inducible host factors (cytokines), EC sensitivity to SLT
toxicity was increased ~1 million-fold. We hypothesized that to manifest the vascular lesions characteristic of
infection with toxin-producing bacteria, two signals were needed: systemic toxins and elevated proinflamma-
tory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNF-a], interleukin 1 [IL-1], and IL-6}. Human EC do not secrete
these cytokines when stimulated with SLTs in vitro, suggesting that additional cells may be involved in
pathogenesis. Therefore, we carried out comparative analyses of the capacity of purified (endotoxin-free) SLTs
and lipopolysaccharides (LPS) to induce cytokine mRNA and proteins from murine macrophages. The cells
were essentially retractory to SLT cytotoxicity, expressing low to undetectable levels of toxin receptor. SLTs and
LPS induced TNF activity and IL-6 expression from macrophages, although dose response and kinetics of
cytokine induction differed. LPS was a more effective inducing agent than SLTs. SLT-I-induced TNF activity
and IL-6 expression were delayed compared with induction mediated by LPS, IL-la production required ~24
h of exposure to SLTs or LPS. Macrophages from LPS-hyporesponsive C3H/HeJ mice produced low levels of
TNE activity when treated with SLT-I, suggesting that LPS and SLTs may utilize separate signaling pathways

for cytokine induction.

Infections with Shigella dysenteriae type 1 or enterohemor-
thagic Escherichia coli are associated with outbreaks of bacil-
lary dysentery or hemorrhagic colitis, respectively. Patients
with these bloody diarrheal diseases are also at increased risk
for the development of life-threatening complications involv-
ing the renal and central nervous systems (2, 27). One of these
sequelae, the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), is a major
cause of pediatric acute renal failure. 5. dysenteriae type 1
expresses high tevels of a potent cytotoxin called Shiga toxin.
Enterohemorthagic £. coli strains produce one or more exo-
toxins which are collectively referred to as Shiga-like toxins
(SLTs) or verocytotoxins. Serologic and nucleotide sequencing
analyses showed that SLTs may be classified on the basis of
their antigenic and genetic relationship to Shiga toxin (re-
viewed in reference 42); SLT type I (SLT-I) is virtually
identical to Shiga toxin, while SLT-II is ~56% homologous to
Shiga toxin or SLT-I at the deduced amino acid sequence level.
Although genetic variants of the toxins have been described,
extensive biochemical and biologic studies have shown that all
members of the SLT family are AB; holotoxins which act by
inhibiting eukaryotic protein synthesis and utilize the neutral
glycolipids globotriaosyiceramide (Gb,) or globotetraosylcer-
amide (Gb,) as functional receptors (reviewed in references
10, 35, and 42).

The precise role of the toxins in colonic ulceration and
bloody diarrhea or in the development of postdiarrheal sys-
temic complications is not known. Comparative histopatho-
logic examination of tissues from macaque monkeys fed either
an invasive toxigenic S. dysenteriae type 1 strain or an atoxi-

* Corresponding author. Phone: (409) 845-1313. Pax: (409) 845-
3479. Electronic mail address: vitesh@sigma.tamu.edu.

S085

genic isogenic derivative suggested that Shiga toxin may exac-
erbate disease by specifically damaging capillaries serving the
colonic mucosa and by mediating the influx of inflammatory
cells inta the intestinal compartment (17). Examination of
kidney tissue from HUS patients showed damage to glomeruli,
characterized by the swelling and detachment of glomerular
endothelial cells (EC) from the basement membrane accom-
panied by the deposition of microthrombi and influx of in-
flammatory cells mto the glomeruli (46, 47), Rabbits given
intravenous SLTs developed severe edema and petechial hem-
orrhages in the cecal mucosa and widespread thrombotic
microangiopathy, edema, and ischemic necrosis in the brain
and spinal cord. Macrophages were occasionally found in the
damaged tissues (4, 48, 65). Mice given SLTs developed acute
bilateral renal tubular necrosis, and the sites of toxin-mediated
damage and expression of Gb, were directly correlated (55,
61). Taken together, these data support the concept that the
toxins act in vivo to specifically damage Gb3-expressing cells in
target organs, EC damage may then facilitate the exudation of
neutrophils and monocytes into the affected tissues.

Shiga toxin and SLTs were shown to be directly toxic for
human vascular EC in vitro (43, 58), although the doses of
toxin necessary to manifest EC killing were 10° to 10° times
greater than the doses used ta lyse toxin-sensitive cell lines
such as Vero or HeLa cells. We and others have found,
however, that when EC were incubated in the presence of
bacterial endotoxins or the proinflammatory cytokines tumor
necrosis factor-e (TNF-«) and interleukin-1 (IL-1), they were
markedly sensitized to the cytotoxic action of SLTs (33, 34, 58).
The mechanism of cytokine-mediated toxin sensitization may
involve increased synthesis and membrane expression of Gb;
(59). Barrett ct al. (3) demonstrated that TNF activity could be
elicited from murine macrophages by treatment with purified