APPENDIX A
Filters were constructed in the following fashion:

Condition 1. Filter holder with no filter.

Condition 2. Filter placed in holder but with two glass tubes spaning
the filter. These tubes were 1.3 mm ID, 1.5 mm OD and
about 8.5 mm long. They were placed in parellel very
close to the center of the filter pad.

Condition 3. Filter placed in holder but with one Qlass tube spaning

the filter. The single tube was similar to that
described in Condition 2.

Condition 4. Filter placed in holder but with one Qlass tube spaning
the filter. In this case, the glass tube was @.8 mm Ip,
1.0 mm OD and 17.5mm long. It was also placed as
described in Condition 2.

Condition S. Intact filter placed in holder, no glass tube spaning
the filter.

The targeted filtration efficiencies were 10Q% WIPM, 75% WTPM, SQ%
WTPM, 25% WIPM and @% WIPM. To find the actual percentage WIPM
passing the filter the following experiment was performed. Atleast 5
filters in each of the five conditions were tested. The test filter
was placed in the filter holder (except for Condition 1 where no
filter was used) which was, in turn, placed directly above the smoking
chamger. A second filter and filter holder was placed on top of the
test filter and test filter holder. This second filter was always an
intact Chambridge pad whose integrity had not be comprimised. Filter
holders (with filters in place) were weighed before a cigarette was
smoked and immediately after the cigarette was smoked. The change in
weight was taken as the measure of WIPM trapped on the filter pad and
in the filter holder. The change in weight of the top filter holder,
in relation to the total weight gain of both filter holders, was taken
to represent the percent of WIPM which had passed through the test
filter and, untimately, to the subject.

Test procedure was as follows: weigh the two filter holders with
filters in place, place the filter holders above the smoking chamger
with cigarette and cigarette lighter in place, turn on the lighter for
18 seconds, turn off lighter while initiating a light puff (FIC). The
cigarette was allowed to burn for three minutes with a puff being
taken at the end of each minute. At the end of the third minute (4
puffs have now been taken) the filter holders were removed and
weighed.

9726 ELHOS