PHILIP KORRIS INCORPORATED

oe - TNTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE oo
100 Park Avenue, Mew York, N.Y. 10017 .

 
   
 
  
 
   
 
     
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
     
 

“Mr. J. J. Gillis _ pate: August 29th, 1968

J, P..Jcb Lee

1+ Virginia Slims Filter and Menthol - Female Sampling Program

   

Virginia Slims, the first cigarette designed exclusively for women,

. responded exceedingly well to special sampling ectivities in the . :

' San Francisco test market area, As a result, we have decided to include ~%

_ female samplers as a part of the national introduction of this exciting |

“new brand. Cities and number of samplers for your Region are as follows:
; en age a oo

- NUMBER SAMPLERS eS

    
  

 

Philadelphia”
Washington, D.C,
Pittsburgh
Cleveland
Baltimore
Cincinnati

erry hd wu

These samplers: will carry out a comprehensive, hieh-cauality person«to~
k ¥ : I > of y t
person sampling effort beginning Monday, October 14, and concluding

 

Recruitment
Begin immediately to recruit female samplers for the indicated cities,

Those employed ‘should be slightly above average height, slender, attractive,
“well groomed, and good conversationalists, preferably with modeling exper-
~.dence, They will be representing Virginia Slims, a product that has elegance

and style. Their personalities should reflect these features as well.

- Salaries fov ferale samplers will be $150 per week, plus expenses of 10¢
per mile for the use of her personal car. Due to the nature of the job,
samplers must have automobiles. The salary offered for these samplers is
designed to. permit you. to be highly selective when recruiting and inter-
viewing applicants. These girls may be reciuited from any source that you
find convenient. Please avoid hiring directly through modeling or employ~
ment agencies, since the girl's total salary of $150 per week would be
reduced significantly. Use model agencies for leads only.

-

 

 

 

Employment

  

Forward to the New York Sales Persoanel Cfflice the ficllowing items for -
each sampler: ,

POPZOOT

o ¢

   
      

PES

    
  
  

   
  

po ate as . Sa ae
Rit imerin se ese ahs
EOC a! aN eke Ra