mo THE NICOTINE'S WHAT MAKES ‘EM SHOKE!

By &. K, Collins

An in-depth look at the primary ingredient that -
affeccs your business.

The stimulation from nicotine in tobacco is the main reason that 60 milifon Americans smoke

Numerous other chemicals are present in tobacco suoke, and it ds the interrelationship of a
these constituents that provides the total pleasure derived from smoking. But nicotine is

component which provides the physiological stimulation that makes a person a compulsive
smoker,

ae renacely, the Surgeon General's report on tobacco and health gave nicotine a clean bili
of health,

Tobacco manufacturers regulate the level of nicotine in their products very closely. Costs
of tobacce going into a Product and nicotine level of the final product receive top attenti
as cigarettes are made. Over a period af time the percentage of nicotine in Products may
vary, but abrupt changes are avoided. Usually it takes a 15% to 20% change for a signifi~
cant part of the public ta detect it. Nevertheless, it's taboo within the industry to make
unnecessary changes.

 

The nicotine level in most best selling cigarettes is currently somewhere between 1.5% and 2%.
Some cigarettes are available with much less nicotine, with 28% of the market in 1977
considered low nicotine. ligh-nicotine cigarettes also fail te attract and keep many smokers.
The lack of nicotine in so-called no-nicotine cigarettes has surely played a major role in
the downfall of these products.

There's a definite correlation between the level of n&atine in tobacco and its aroma or
Pleasing qualities during combustion. Low-nicotine tobaccos usually are weak flavored,
Migh-nicotine tobaccos are too strong for most American smokers. When our forefathers ce:
to this country they found the Indians smoking high=nicotine (about 10%) tobaccos, The
tobaccos vere simply too strong for our people.

 

“Blending" is the main method used by manufacturers to regulate the desired nicotine level
in tobacco products, The basic blend of our cigarettes is composed of four classes of
tebacco, each of which has distinct properties. In 1976 the average percentage of each
class of tobacco used in cigarettes was: flue-cured, 46%, Burley, 347; Maryland, .22;
and imported, 18%. :

Nicotine contributed by the flue-cured portion of the blrad is controlled by using tobacco
grown in different years, fron different production areas of the Belt, and from different
Stalk positions, Nicotine content of tobacco grown in differcnt years and production areas
vaties considerably, It's mainly related to rainfall.

Most of the 60 species of tobacco are very low in nicotine, (We'll define a species as a
group of freely interbreeding plants.) Nicotine can be artificially produced, but ta date
this process has been cost prohibitive fer commercial use. Kovever, efforts by private
companies are currently underway to make synthetic cigarettes with nicotine added,

 

Buying patterns of companies are influenced by the levels of nicotine of tobacco in
inventory as weli as of what is being purchased. But as leaf inventories held by companies

576106781