. oh eg
Ke Asi v9 “8

Abhication # s4uy

peterres For ssfe Wiel
Abel lee

Critique of Busbee Application

The staff, Dv, Brennan and I met Dr. Busbee during
the meeting of the CTR in June 1982 where he presented
his data.

In principle, the work is concerned with the transport
of aromatic hydrocarbons (H3) carcinogen by serum
components. In addition, the importance of binding

of lipofilic carcinogens by lipoproteins and their
uptake is being explored. It was therefore logical for
Dr. Busbee to suggest a correlation between LP and the
action of carcinogens. Not, so logical is his invocation
of carcinogen-initiated hypeplastic growth of cells and
human atherosclerosis. In this connection he quotes
(in reference 7) Benditt, who has demonstrated the
tumor-like growth of smooth muscle cells, but who never
mentioned any connection with lipofilic carcinogens.
This connection is most tenuous.

It is also natural for Dr. Busbee to invoke the work of
Goldstein on LDL receptors.

He attempts to demonstrate the close connection between
transport of carcinogen (PAH) by lipoproteins; and the
initiation of DNA synthesis in treated cells.

TECHNIQUE:

The lipoprotein preparation is quite interesting because

he uses a method which he claims is new and more simple

than others and that is the TSK-250 column which originated
in Japan. I have no experience with this column, since

most peonle use differential ultra-centrifugation or heparin-
Manganese methods. The binding of LDL with benzopyrene

which is labeled is investigated. A further step, of course,
is the binding of carcinogens to cellular components. He
uses human lymphocytes in this connection.

The last step is an investigation of carcinogen binding of
lymphocytes to DNA, and the incorporation of tritiated
thinidin into lymphocytes.

In principle, therefore, the investigation consists in
isolation of low density lipoprotein, demonstration of binding
of the carcinogen and the effect of this binding complex to
the uptake and effect on DNA synthesis in the cell.