Philip Morris U.S.A. PRIORITY

 

PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTEROFFICE CORRESPONDENCE
Ashland, Virginia
To: K.S. Houghton / A.C. Lilly / LR. Nelson Date: March 24, 1995

From: J.A. Carboni
Subject: Bi-weekly Summary
Heater / Lighter Development:

Heater Development:

* PM 50 and PM 80 were received and tested for heater creep. We saw no significant improvement of
mechanical stability under heating. ORNL is looking into their ability to enhance the stability by heat
treating. In addition, we are trying our own tests using ovens available at R&D.

* An alternative strategy to increasing the strength of the heater material, at elevated temperatures, is to
investigate the feasibility of lowering the heater operating temperature (creep is extremely sensitive to small
ag changes in temperature) while maintaining the required heat transfer to the cigarette (thus maintaining
subjective character). We have identified the required energy profile to attain a constant temperature for a
given heater. This energy profile will be tested for subjective impact once the virtual lighter is complete.

* Ceramx sleeve testing is in progress. The sleeves are functioning as expected.

¢ We have received carbon-impregnated acetate sleeves from AFC. These will be used to assess the
replaceable condensate control system.

Lighter Development:

¢ Fifteen lighters were brought back from Sanyo. Some minor problems with heater shorts and flow sensors
occurred. These are now being corrected. All heaters will be disassembled and flow tubes reversed to
improve subjectives. During the disassembly the heaters will be inspected for potential shorts and fixed as
needed.

* The BFL (Big Flexible Lighter) now has the capability of monitoring heater profile. We are developing the
ability to modulate the energy to the heater.

Energy Storage:

* A simple simulation of heater temperature dynamics has been initiated using a commercial software package.
With it's use, results of using various power modulation schemes can be easily visualized. Incorporation of a
more rigorous heater model from A. D. Little into the simulation is being pursued.

ZO9G0GP90e