Cigarette Development:

Menthol subjectives can be improved through proper selection of cut filler tobacco blends. A series of blend
variations will be tested to achieve optimum subjectives. Preliminary subjective screening also showed that
K1 plasticizer and replacement of the HAT with a polypropylene tube improve menthol impact. Analytical
results on these models will be available next week.

Coated Mat Process Development:

The March 16 Ancram trial was successful in producing tobacco extract liquor at 7%, allewing us to proceed
with current cigarette mat formulation. Handsheets of mat made at Ancram were used to make hand-made
cigarettes in Ashland this week. Subjective evaluations of the trial will be completed by March 28.

Performance Assessment:

.

M

Cigarettes placed in similar humidity as Japan have shown evidence that column strength in the cavity area is
not adequate to sustain insertion into a lighter. Cigarettes used thus far in this evaluation are with 9%
glycerin. A test is in progress to determine the effect of mat glycerin level on high humidity crush strength.
Cigarettes with mat glycerin levels of 9, 7, and 5% are in test.

inery Development:

Commercial DAPTC (Combiners):

Strategy is currently being developed to incorporate a Max tipper fan inte the DAPTC to provide vacuum,
dust collection and boost to the Garden dust collection system. The need for a stand alone vacuum source at
the DAPTC was not anticipated in the original scope of the development work.

DAPTC Tobacco Mat Automatic Splicing System:

Electrical debug continues to delay initial trials with the Phase I prototype. On March 20, Ashland electrical
personnel identified and resolved a problem with a faulty processor in the system.

MK9 / Max-S (Tobacco Rod Makers):

A chip was replaced in the Mk9 PIM (electrical controls) in response to a recent P.M. Safety Bulletin.
Louisville had identified a Mk9 PIM control problem that allowed the machine to be operated in the jog mode
with a safety inter-lock engaged.

Set-up of the Accuray long-term weight-control system is continuing.

Commercial D.H. Max (Tipping Machinery):

Slitter:

Problems with cellulose acetate build-up on the combined tobacco rod second-cut knife have been eliminated
by changing to a different style carbide knife.

Optimization emphasis has shifted back to the combined tobacco rod alignment drum where consistent
alignment prior to the next drum transfer continues to be a problem. Maximum speed with consistent quality
is currently at 1200 cigarettes per minute, although short runs at 3000 cigarettes per minute have been
observed.

Construction on MR3 (Machine Room #3) has begun and should be completed in approximately one month.
MR3 will provide a controlled environment (temperature and humidity) for slitting operations.

£0960Gh902

2