Vol.

ad ae ae en wren mee wn

44, No. 1, 1964 BIOCHEMICAL AND BIOPHYSICAL RESEARCH COMMUNICATIONS

at various intervals after infarction, from 4 hours up to 6 days.
Four hours prior to death the fasting animals were injected with the
labeled glycine.

Cell fractionation and nuclear extraction were performed
according to the method of Sibatani et al (1962). The nuclear
fraction (containing also the bulk of myofibrils) was able to
incorporate in vitro labeled amino acids (cts protein hydrolysate)
into their proteins accor@ing to the method of Allfrey et al (1956).

Te nuclear fractionation consisted of: {1) The extraction
of nuciear ribosomes (Nz) together with other proteins of the
Boluble phase of the nucleus; the particles were then removed from
the extract by centrifugation at high speed. (2) Extraction of
DNA, RNA and nucleoproteins (Ny;,;) with 1M NaCl. (3) Phenol treatment
of the residue and centrifugation which resulted in the separation of
@D aqueous phase which overlay a considerable interphase layer, a
phenol phase, and a sediment at the bottom of the tube. This phenol
treatment separates the RNA into two phases: (a) an “agueous phase”
RNA fraction of relatively low activity (p-RNA), and (b) an
"interphase" fraction with very high radioactivity (m-RNA).

The protein in the phenol phase and interphase was labeled
Nyrz and the protein fraction from the sediment at the bottom of the
tube was labeled Nyy and contains the bulk of contractile proteins.
The nucleic acid fractions were hydrolyzed with 1 N NaOH or 1.6 N PCA
and purified on charcoal columns. RNA and DNA were tested spectro-
photometrically for purity with Beckman DK-2. The radioactivity of
pucleic acids was determined in a liquid scintillation counter using
the dioxane scintillator of Bray (1960). The protein fractions were
treated with TCA at 7O°Cc to remove possible residual mucleic acids;
lipids were removed with ethanol, ethanol-ether and acetone. The

protein was then washed neutral, dried and the radioactivity was

13

PUBLICATIONS 004252