».DEC-04-97 THU 11:17 AM NB BULK PACKAGING FAX NO. 7704293533 P, 05/08

United States Food Safety Washington, 0.C.
Department of and Inspection 20250
Agriculture Service
Egg Products Inspection Division
. June 14, 1996
Mr. Gary Brown

MacMillan Bloedel Bulk Packaging

Division of MacMillan Bloedel of America, Inc.
1811 West Oak Parkway

Marietta, Georgia 30062

Dear Mr, Brown:

This is in response to your June 4 letter requesting Department of Agriculmre (USDA)
approval of the polypropylene Tre Blue Ball Valve, manufactured by BLDL, Inc, Totowa,
New Jersey, for use in plants operating under the federal egg products inspection program.
You propose to use the apparatus as an outlet valve for attachment to your firm's single-use
corrugated fiber IBC portable container approved for use in official egg products plants,
Enclosed with your letter were specifications and drawings describing the construction of the
BLDL ball valve,

Based on the information and drawing submitted and your written certification that the ball
valve is fabricated of materials that comply with Federal Food and Drug Administration
regulations, Title 21 CFR 177.1520, we are approving the polypropylene BLDL True Blue
Valve as a component outlet valve on your firm's IBC corrugated fiber container. This
approval for use of the polypropylene valve in official egg products plants is subject to the
following provisions:,

1. The ball valve and stainless steel bag-puncture apparatus are completely
disassembled after each use for cleaning and inspection.

2. Evidence of scoring or damage to the product contact surfaces of the ball valve
affecting cleanabillty will result in termination of approval for use of an individual valve
assembly, ,

3. As stated in previous discussions, corrugated fiber totes are not approved for
storage of liquid egg products in official egg products. Therefore, upon installation of the
valve on the container, the contents must be removed on a continuous basis until the container
is empty.

Failure to comply with the above provisions will result in termination of this approval.
If you have any additional questions, please contact this office.
Sincerely,

“Ege A tnaakgy

Roger L. Glasshoff
National Supervisor, Plant Operations

PSLE SLLTS

PME FOR 2OI0- 8 0 EN? BQUAL CPPCATUNITY IN EMPLOYMENT AND SESVICES