ao aie

Medical News ~

 

 

      

 

dune 2. 1978
Spe © ° a.
Hepatitis A: antibodies are
prevalent but illness is not
Research on hepatitis A may lag behind that on
hepatitis 8, but a clinical picture of type A disease is
becoming more clear.

The words “subclinical picture” might be more
accurate, however, because according t Jules L. Dien-
ptag. MD, and co-workers, much of the disease
produced by the hepatitis A virus is not clinically
apparent. They suggest it is this sporadic, inapparent
infection that maintains the hepatitis A virus in
nature between major detectable outbreaks

Recently in New York City, in serological testing of
more than 1,000 specimens, this research team founo ;
antibodies to hepatitis A virus in 91% of middle class n cee a
volunteer blood donors and in 60% of poor persons Courtesy 01 NS OND! Engentes OF eatin
frotn the inner city. Despite this prevalence, less than Agaregete of 27-nm hepatitis A antigen particios coated with
5% of these people could remember having had hepa- e|ntibody {x 168.000)
titis. The investigators say this is “consistent with the tion, and perhaps some stili-undiscovered geographic
belief that most cases are clinically inapparent ” factors.

Even when hepatitis A is clinically apparent. Dr With regord to age. the prevalence of antibodies to
Dienstag told an American College of Physicians hepatitis A virus increases with age in all socioeco-
audience in Boston, usually it is a mild, self-limited nomic groups tested, approaching 80% among persons
illness. Hepatic encephalopathy develops in a few 50 or older. It is possible that these older people were
patients, but, in the outbreaks that Dr Dienstag and exposed to the virus years ago when living conditions
colleagues have studied. all patients have survived. were leas hygienic. Support for this idea is found in
Thus, he ssid, evidence from these and other studies the declining number of reported childhood cases of
euggests thot hepatitis A rarely fulminates, and the hepatitis A in this country in recent years. However,
virus so far has not been associated serologically with anti-hepatitis A titers in immune serum globulin
chronic liver disease. collected in large cities like Boston in the last 30 years

Until recently, he says, most of what was known have not shown a similar decline.
about the epidemiology of hepatitis A was learned Another possibility is that, at least in urban areas,
from studies with volunteers and observations during there may be continuous exposure throughout life At
natural outbreaks. Now that the hepatitis A virus has least half the people living in the lowes socioeconomic
been identified and its antibody can be detected by sreas of New York appear to become infected by the
immune adherence hemagglutination, radioimmu- tirae they reach their 20s. But in neighborhoods where
Moassay, complement fixation, and immune electron people of s higher socioeconomic class live, serological
microscopy, “the means are at hand to test and extend testing by age groups has to extend to people in their
our current underetanding of this virus.” 80; and 50s before a 50% rate of exposure is

The virus contains RNA, Dr Dienstag pointed ovt, reached.
and it is “most likely an enterovirus” of the icosahedral Say Dr Dienstag and colleagues: “One implication
picorna group, “although a few properties don’! fir” of these seroepidemiologic studies is the advisability

He and his colleagues report that exposvre to heps- of preparing immune serum globulin from plasma of
titis A virus is much more likely than exposure to the older, lower socioeconomic class urban individuals
type B virus. A two to six times greater prevalence of The inverse relationship of exposure to hepatitis A
antibodies to type A than to type B has been found in virus and socioeconomic class has been reporied by
most populations studied in the United States and for several investigators and holds “whether sotiorco-
both sexes The likelihood of exposure increases with nomic class is defined by level of education, religious
the person's age, decreases with rising socroeconemic group, working class or prison status. census classif-
class. and varies from country to country in relation cation, or underdeveloped vs developed countr: ”
to their atages of development, emphasis on sanita- continued on pay: 2386
JAMA. June 2. 1078—Vo!l 23D. No 22 MedcaltNows 2329

ere

at RS EE A ONT RR

~