Draft submissions from Machinists tobacco locals to FDA

Dockets Management Branch (HFA-305)
Food and Drug Administration

Room i-23

12420 Parklawn Drive

Rockville, MD 20857

RE: 95N-0253
(Regulations Restricting the Sale and Distribution of Cigarettes and Smokeless
Tobacco Products)

On behalf of Machinists Locai (local number), | am wating to express our strong
opposition to the proposed reguiation of tobacco products by the FDA.

The proposed regulations, taken in their entirety, will certainly lead to much more
severe controls on the use of tobacco products by adults. They go right at the economic
viability of the tobacco industry and in tum the livelihood of our members whose jobs
depend on the industry

What is most outrageous is that rarely in ail of the cebate over tobacco regulation
is there ever a mention of the jobs of thousands of hard working men and women whose
livelihoods depend on the tobacco industry. The excellent wages and benetits we eam
enable us to provide for our families. send our children to college, care for our parents.
grandparents and grandchildren.

Because of these wages and benefits, we bolster the standard of living and quality
of life in our community. Tobacco industry workers will not be the only ones hurt by this
attack on the tobacco industry. The people who work in the businesses we patronize--ihe
restaurants, grocery stores, appliance shops, hairdressers and car dealers to name a tew--
will pay a high price as weil for these misguided and punitive regulation.

Our union agrees that teen smoking is an important issue that should be addressed.
But regulating away thousands of jobs is not the answer. States are already required by
federal law to pass legisiation restricting access of tobacco products to minors. Our union
and the industry support these efforts.

Tobacco is a legal product produced by American workers and should continue to
be treated as such. A percentage of American adults will choose to use tobacco products.

TI1686-0527