While the downward movement of total brand share and particularly
recent King Size share is of concern, in no way can we identify
either product or advertising as a causative factor.

No consumer complaint letters from the Phoenix/Tucson area have
been received for several weeks.

 

Share of market for 100's and King Size packings of True seemed
to be mildly responsive to the local newspaper advertising
pressure scheduled during January and February of '84.

 

The responsiveness proved to be transitory, however, as the long
term declining share trend took hold following the print
schedule.

See attached graphs for visual depiction of the share trends
discussed above.

DENVER , ™

Total True brand share continues to erode with significant loss
in share evidenced over the nine month period of Laser product
availability. Share in August '83 totaled approximately 1.90%
while most recent two week share levels are approximately 1.65%.

Share continued to erode through the two month flight of Laser
True advertising in January and February '84.

True 100‘s have, over the period of Laser product availability
beginning in late August '83, moved from approximately .95% share
of market to .76% in mid-April.

True King Size share change has been equally dramatic with share
of market declining from a peak of 1.0% in August to .87% in the ;
most recent period. Yee we

Our sales research analysts. have ventured that Denver is an
atypical market in that it has been heavily influenced by generic
brands which may be adversely affecting True's share of market.

Close examination of this possibility, however, reveals that the
marginally better performing Phoenix area is much more heavily
affected by generics - in our audit panel - then Denver is. “
Audit panel generic share: Denver 4.97%; Phoenix 6.97%.

A second hypothesis to explain True's poor share performance in 8
the Denver audit panel is that consumer purchasing habits are 2
changing in that carton sales are growing in convenience and low
discount outlets not represented in our panel, at the expense of &
our share in the traditional supermarket outlets. s