10

11

12

13

14

15

16

i7

18

19

20

21

22

23

24-Oct-97 -/6569 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 10

1994). The materials in the aging room were unexposed at the start of the inhalation. The
painted wallpaper was replaced every 13 weeks. A ceiling fan was operated to facilitate
uniform distribution of the RASS. The room was illuminated by fluorescent “daylight” lamps
(Lumilux L58W/11, Osram, Munich, Germany). Two heat exchangers (approximately 60 m?
surface area) were used to keep the room temperature constant. RASS was conveyed via
glass tubing to the exposure chambers. RASS generation was started approximately 2.5 h
before the start of the daily exposure to achieve a steady-state test atmosphere for inhalation.
During overnight, non-smoking periods, the room was flushed with filtered, conditioned fresh

air at 56 m°/h.

The test atmosphere for WB6 was obtained by diluting the RASS from the aging room
with filtered, conditioned fresh air. Whole-body exposure normally results in slight losses of
TPM, mainly due to particle deposition in the chamber and on fur. In order to obtain the same
TPM concentration in WB12 and HO12, the RASS from the aging room was diluted by 20 %

with filtered, conditioned fresh air before entering the head-only exposure chamber.

Sham-exposed rats (WBO) were exposed to filtered, conditioned fresh air under the same

conditions as the whole-body RASS-exposed rats.
Analytical Characterization of the Test Atmospheres

At designated time intervais, a broad range of analytes was determined to characterize
the test atmospheres, to evaluate the reproducibility of the test atmosphere generation, and to
detect possible cross contamination in the sham-exposed group. Samples were collected
within the exposure chambers at sites representative for the breathing zone of the rats. CO
was continuously monitored. TPM was determined at least once per day. The other analytes

were determined at less frequent intervals from weekly to twice a year.

ZLSPESOLOG