20

ah

22

23

24-Oct-97 ~ -/6569 Master_4.doc DRAFT _ Page 26

be estimated to be approximately 10 and 3 ug/kg, respectively. The daily TPM dose taken up

by the rats in the present study was 3 orders of magnitude higher.

As a result of dilution, the concentrations of most RASS components decreased in
proportion to the concentrations of either the particulate matter or gas phase markers. The
major exceptions to this rule were the low concentrations of nicotine, formaldehyde, and
catechol found in the whole-body compared to the head-only exposure chambers. Nicotine is
known to adsorb with high affinity to all kinds of surface materials. The same lack of
proportional dilution associated with the exposure mode was found for the nicotine
concentration in MS (Chen et al. 1989). Formaldehyde is a highly reactive compound which,
under whole-body exposure conditions, even reacts with rat excretion products and/or fur
(unpublished results; Kewitz and Welsch, 1966). No explanation is available to date for the

comparatively low catechol concentrations in the whole-body exposure groups.

Biomonitoring via the analysis of HoCO proportions in blood, hemoglobin adducts of 4-AB,

and nicotine metabolites in urine confirmed correct exposure of the rats.

After establishing a steady-state equilibrium, the blood HbCO proportion is directly
proportional to the RASS CO concentration. However, the HbCO proportion does not reflect
the overall dose of RASS taken up by the rats, especially when considering the differences in
the daily whole-body and head-only exposure durations. The fevels of the 4-AB hemoglobin
adduct corresponded to the daily TPM doses for all groups. This adduct is considered to
reflect the overall dose of metabolically activated 4-AB over the lifetime of the erythrocytes.
However, for smoke inhalation studies, another explanation for the increase in this adduct
with increasing TPM doses cannot be ruled out: The metabolic activation of 4-AB might be

dose-dependently induced, similar to the induction seen for benzo(a)pyrene metabolism in

gzevsgoLoc