20

21

22

23

24-Oct-97 ~ -/6569 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 27

previous cigarette smoke inhalation studies (e.g., Gairola, 1987; Haussmann et al., in press).
Indeed, pretreatment of rats with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons was shown to shift the
hepatic metabolism of 4-AB towards activated metabolites and to proportionally increase the
yield of protein adducts (Orzechowski et al., 1994). In any case, even if the increase in the 4-
AB hemoglobin adduct seen in the present study is not a specific marker for 4-AB uptake, it

still would be a marker for the uptake of compounds capable of inaueing

4-AB metabolism. The source of 4-AB responsible for the formation of the adduct level
found in the sham-exposed group remains to be determined. A similar 4-AB background
adduct level was reported by others (Bryant et al., 1987). High background adduct levels may
also be responsible for the failure to detect possible increases in hemoglobin adduct levels of

other aromatic amines associated with RASS inhalation.

The biomonitoring end points discussed above do not necessarily reflect the route of
uptake of the respective compounds. This is especially important for whole-body exposure.
Therefore, care has to be taken in determining the dose taken up by inhalation vs. the dose
taken up by other routes. During whole-body exposure, aerosol is known to deposit on the fur
of the rats and its constituents may be taken up either transdermally or orally by grooming
(Wolff et al., 1982; lwasaki et al., 1988). This increases the total dose taken up and may
exaggerate the associated toxicity. Nicotine concentrations found in the plasma and urine of
rats were 5- to 6-foid higher with whole-body MS exposure than with nose-only exposure,
based on equal nicotine concentrations in MS (Mauderly et al., 1989). The corresponding
urine cotinine concentrations were 2.6-fold higher. The latter factor fits well with the 2- to 3-
fold higher amounts of nicotine metabolites excreted by whole body vs. head-only exposed

rats in the present study, based on equa! nicotine inhalation. Thus, for RASS, as is the case

gzEreggLoe |