10

11

12

13

14

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

24-Oct-97 -(8569 Master_4.doc . . DRAFT Page 2

The present study extends the current scope of rat inhalation studies on surrogates of
environmental tobacco smoke. The 12-month inhalation period enabled an investigation of the
potential progression er occurrence of new morphologic effects from subchronic to chronic
inhalation. In addition, pulmonary inflammation and oxidative DNA damage were investigated.
Female Wistar rats were exposed whole-body to room-aged cigarette sidestream smoke
(RASS) generated from the reference cigarette 1R4F at 6 and 12 ug total particulate matter/|
for 12 h/day, 5 days/week, and 12 months. To enable an evaluation of the exposure mode,
another group of rats was exposed head-only to 12 yg total particulate matter/ for 7 h/day.
Whole-body exposure conditions per se resulted in changes of the RASS composition. An
analysis of urinary nicotine metabolites showed that with whole-body exposure, RASS
components, such as nicotine, were additionally taken up by routes other than inhalation.
Independent from the exposure mode, blood carboxyhemoglobin and the hemoglobin adduct
of 4-aminobipheny! were useful biomarkers for the RASS concentration and dose,
respectively. Histopathological changes were slight to moderate reserve cell hyperplasia and
slight squamous metaplasia of the respiratory epithelium as well as minimal atrophy of the
olfactory epithelium in the anterior nasal cavity, pronounced squamous metaplasia and
hyperplasia in the larynx at the base of epigiottis, and slight reserve cell hyperplasia in the
bronchial respiratory epithelium. Most of these adaptive changes were similar in type and
severity to those seen in previous subchronic RASS inhalation studies. A flow cytometric
analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage cells, i.e., alveolar macrophages, lymphocytes, and
polymorphonuclear leukocytes, did not show signs of pulmonary inflammation after 6 or 12
months of inhalation. As a measure for oxidative DNA modifications, 8-hydroxy-
deoxyguanosine was determined. No change was seen for this parameter at either time point
in the lungs. There was a slight but not consistent increase in the nasal respiratory and

olfactory epithelia as well as in urinary 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine excretion. In summary,

_ bOereggz0z

1
qu