20

21

22

23

24

24-Oct-97 ~~ -/6569 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 28

for other aerosols, whole-body exposure is associated with a significant uptake of test

materials by routes other than inhalation.

The sum of the five nicotine metabolites determined in HO12 accounted for almost 50 %
of the calculated inhaled nicotine dose per day. About the same percentage was obtained for
the urinary excretion of these five metabolites following intravenous administration of nicotine
to male Sprague-Dawley rats (Schepers et al., 1993). In Aroclor 1254-induced Spragque-
Dawley rats, this percentage decreased to approximately 20 % indicating that other pathways
of nicotine metabolism were induced. This suggests that the nicotine metabolite pattern of the
RASS-exposed rats was similar to that of non-induced rats, although this comparison includes
an extrapolation between different rat strains and genders. This interpretation is supported by
the lack of any change in the relative pattern of the five metabolites between 3 weeks and 12

months of inhalation.

The above mentioned biomonitoring end points cannot be used to determine the
deposition of particulate matter in the lungs. The accumulation of pigmented AM may be an
indication of particles accumulating in the lungs following smoke inhalation, since this
phenomenon was found in rats following inhalation of whole MS but not in those only exposed
to the vapor phase of MS (Davis et al., 1975a and b; Coggins et al., 1980). However, the
pigmentation may also result from lipid peroxidation or iron incorporation in the AM as a
secondary effect due to smoke particle inhalation. The number of AM staining positive for
iron/hemosiderin was found to increase in rats following subchronic SS inhalation (CO
concentration: 35 ppm; Escolar et al., 1995). In the present study, no iron-specific staining
was used, and the slight accumulation of pigmented AM in the high concentration groups was
seen in hematoxylin/eosin-stained sections. No such pigmentation was reported for

subchronic SS inhalation studies on rats (von Meyerinck et al., 1989; Coggins et al., 1993;

O€ere99L0Z