10

11

12

13

14

20

al

22

23

24

24-Ocro7 18563 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 32

indication of an inflammatory response was seen by Witschi et al. (1997) when A/J mice were
chronically exposed to a mixture of SS and MS at a TPM concentration as high as 87 ug/l. On
the other hand, pronounced effects on rat bronchoalveolar lavage cell composition indicating
a strong inflammatory response were found following inhalation of aerosols including insoluble
particles, such as Diesel engine exhaust, at particulate matter concentrations far below those
used in cigarette smoke inhalation studies (Henderson et al., 1988). Pulmonary inflammation
following particle inhalation has been associated with lung carcinogenesis in experimental

animals (Dungworth et al., 1994).

An increase in the formation of 8-OHdG has been investigated in the present study as a
marker for oxidative stress since this end point has been associated with carcinogenesis
(Floyd, 1990) and with cigarette smoking (Asami et al., 1996). The observed increase of the
8-OHdG levels in the nasal epithelia at the highest RASS concentration was only in part
statistically significant and reproducible following 6 or 12 months of inhalation. The biological
relevance of this effect remains to be investigated. With regard to its relation to
carcinogenesis, it is interesting to note that Witschi et al. (1997) has not reported nasal
tumors using SS/MS concentrations up to one order of magnitude higher than those in the

present study.

in contrast to the results obtained for the nasal epithelia, in the lungs no statistically
significant effect in the levels of 8-OHdG was found following 6 and 12 months of RASS
inhalation; indeed, the levels tended to decrease. This might be plausible in view of several
adaptive antioxidant responses reported for lungs following cigarette smoke exposure, @.g.,
the accumulation of vitamins E and C or increased activities of glutathione peroxidase or
superoxide dismutase, as reviewed by Chow (1993). Furthermore, the repair of oxidative DNA

modifications might be induced as a consequence of chronic exposure as reported for the

_veereggsoz