17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

24-Oct-97 -/6569 Masier_4.doc DRAFT Page 30

The histopathological changes observed in the nose were generally similar to those
observed following subchronic RASS inhalation (Haussmann et al., in press), both
qualitatively and quantitatively, indicating that there was no progression of these findings. This
analogy further suggests that these effects could also be considered reversible, adaptive
responses to repeated irritation as shown for subchronic studies (von Meyerinck et al., 1989;
Coggins et al., 1993; Haussmann et al., in press) although there was no postinhalation period
included in the present study design to specifically address the question of reversibility. In
addition to the reserve cell hyperplasia seen in the anterior part of the nose in the subchronic
studies, slight squamous metaplasia of the respiratory epithelium in this part of the nose was
seen in WB12. The appearance of this effect in WB12 might be due to the higher daily TPM

dose compared to the subchronic studies and/or the chronic inhalation period.

In the larynx, the hyperplastic and metaplastic changes were the most pronounced. Those
seen in HO12 were in line with those observed in the previous subchronic head-only exposure
study (Haussmann et al., in press) on the basis of an assumed linear conceniration-response
relationship. However, the severity of the changes seen in WB6 and WB12 exceeded those
observed in HO12 and also those seen in the previous subchronic head-only exposure
studies. Normalizing all these data to daily TPM doses reveals a dose-response relationship
with no distinction between subchronic or chronic inhalation periods, which is compatible with
a hyperbolic saturation regression model. Thus, there seems to be no progression with

prolonged inhalation.

An association of most of the histopathological changes with the particulate matter phase
of the SS aerosols was assumed in the previous subchronic study (Haussmann et al., in
press). The upper respiratory tract results of the present study support this interpretation and

place emphasis on the daily particulate matter dose rather than on concentration (WB12 vs.

ZEEPEQGLO?