20

21

22

23

24

24-Oct-97 ~18569 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 4

Environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) was classified as a class A (known human)
carcinogen by the US Environmental Protection Agency (US EPA, 1992). The agency based
this decision on the analogy to mainstream cigarette smoke (MS) as well as on the results of
epidemiological studies. tt acknowledged that lifetime animal inhalation studies were lacking,
which implies that further experimental toxicology is necessary to evaluate the claimed

biological plausibility of this classification.

Since this classification, two long-term inhalation studies on A/J mice were reported using
different sidestream smoke (SS) surrogates for ETS (Witschi et al., 1995a and 1997). The
first study, six months of exposure to relatively fresh SS at a concentration of 4 wg total
particulate matter (TPM)/I, did not show a difference in the rate of lung tumors compared to
controls. In the second study, five months of exposure to a mixture of SS and MS at
concentrations up to 87 4g TPMA plus a 4-month postinhalation period, an increased rate of
pulmonary adenomas was reported. However, apart from the highly toxic dose level used,
ihere were several inconsistencies in this study, such as the large variation in the
spontaneous lung tumor rate and the lack of smoke exposure-related non-neoplastic lesions
in the lungs, which leave some questions open about the relevance of this experimental
design. No final data have been reported on a long-term SS inhalation study on hamsters
performed several years ago (Haley et al., 1987a and b). For rats, no long-term SS inhalation
study has been reported to date although the rat is the most frequently used in subchronic

inhalation studies (Witschi et al., 1995b).

The present chronic study extends the current scope of rat inhalation studies on ETS
surrogates. With an inhalation period of 12 months, an investigation of the potential
progression of respiratory tract histopathological changes or occurrence of new changes from

subchronic to chronic inhalation is made possible. In addition, the investigation of mechanistic

goere99L0z