16

18

 

20

21

22

23

24

24-Oct-97 ISE69 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 34

sign of systemic toxicity in the present study. In addition, the exposure mode might have also
influenced the formation and excretion of 8-OHdG. For cigarette smoke carcinogenicity
studies, whole-body exposure must be considered to be a substantial confounding factor: (1)
The composition of the cigarette smoke aerosol, either RASS (present study) or MS (Chen et
al, 1989), was found to artificially change in the whole-body situation. (2) There is a
considerable non-inhalative uptake of smoke components which, based on the nicotine
biomonitoring data for RASS (present study) and MS (Mauderly et al., 1989), might exceed
the inhalative uptake by far. NNK, a compound structurally similar to nicotine, is a rodent lung
carcinogen regardless of the route of administration with a preferential formation of adenomas
and adenocarcinomas (Hoffmann et al., 1996). These are the types of tumors reported to be
more frequent in A/J mice following whole-body exposure to a mixture of SS and MS (Witschi
et al., 1997). Furthermore, pulmonary DNA adducts were found after topical application of MS
condensate (Randerath et al., 1988) or Diesel engine exhaust extracts (Gallagher et al., 1990)
to mouse skin. The extent of non-inhalative uptake might be different for various compounds
since there was no influence of the exposure mode on the levels of the 4-AB hemoglobin
adduct (RASS, this study) or those of pulmonary DNA adducts (MS, Mauderly et al., 1989)

detected by the postlabeling method.

In summary, for histopathological changes, pulmonary inflammation, or oxidative DNA
damage, there was little indication of progression or occurrence of new effects with
prolongation of the inhalation period to 12 months. The two slight histopathological changes
which were not seen in the subchronic studies, £e., squamous metaplasia in the anterior
nasal respiratory epithelium and the bronchial reserve cell hyperplasia, might well be due to
the higher concentration and daily dase in the chronic compared to the subchronic studies.

However, it cannot be ruled out that these effects are due to the chronic inhalation period.

9ECPE99L0