10

M1

12

13

14

is

16

17

18

20

21

22

23

24-Oct-97 -/6569 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 20

from the conventional comparison based on equivalent TPM concentrations (WB12 vs.
HO12), a further comparison based on equivalent daily TPM doses is possible between WB6

and HOi2.

Carboxyhemoglobin The steady-state HbCO proportions were in agreement with those

expected based on the CO concentrations in the various test atmospheres (Figure 1A).

Hemoglobin Adducts Following 12 months of inhalation, a TPM dose dependent
increase in hemoglobin adducts of 4-aminobipheny! (4-AB) was found for WBO, WB6 / HO12,
and WB12 (Figure 1B). The adduct levels for the other aromatic amines investigated (aniline,
o-, m, p-toluene, 2-ethylaniline, 2,4-dimethylaniline, o-anisidine, and 3-aminobiphenyl) were
not statistically significantly different among the groups, although a notable numerical

increase in the 3-aminobiphenyl adduct level was seen (data not shown).

Nicotine Uptake For the evaluation of the nicotine uptake, five major urinary nicotine
metabolites were determined, fe., nicotine-N’-oxide, nornicotine, cotinine, trans-3’-
hydroxycotinine, and norcotinine. The parent compound was also determined but not used in
this evaluation, since control experiments showed that aerosol nicotine directly dissolved in
the urine collected in the whole-body chambers. The sum of the five metabolites excreted
over 24 h at 5 months of RASS inhalation is presented in Figure 2. Similar data were obtained
at 12 months of inhalation. At 3 weeks of inhalation, the total amount of metabolites excreted
in the whole-body exposed groups was up to 50 % lower. The amount of nicotine metabolites
excreted, and correspondingly the nicotine uptake, increased dose dependently in the whole-
body exposed groups to levels which far exceeded that in the head-only exposed rats (Figure
2A). This is partially due to the longer daily exposure duration and the higher respiratory

minute volume for the rats in the WB groups: When the theoretical amount of inhaled nicotine

zzeveggLoe