20

21

22

23

24

24-Oct-97 -I6889 Master_4.doc DRAFT Page 9

maintained inside the laboratory unit. Room temperature and relative humidity were
maintained at 22 °C (SD: 1°C) and 61 % (SD: 9%), respectively. The light/dark cycle was
14 h/10 h. The whole-body exposed rats were exposed and housed in wire mesh cages (2
rats/cage), whereas the head-only exposed rats were housed between exposures in
transparent polycarbonate cages (2 rats/cage) on sterilized softwood granulate (Braun & Co.,
Battenberg, Germany). A sterilized, fortified pellet diet (MRH FF, Eggersmann, Rinteln,
Germany) from cage lid racks and sterilized water from bottles with sterilized sipper tubes
were supplied ad libitum in each cage. Food was not available to the rats during the daily
exposure periods. During exposure, drinking water was not available to the head-only
exposed rats. Chemical analyses of food, water, and bedding material confirmed compliance
with the requirements set forth by the National Toxicology Program (1991). Good hygienic
conditions within the animal housing and exposure rooms were maintained as evidenced by
the results of the bacteriological examinations of the laboratory surfaces and air as well as of

the rat diet and drinking water.
RASS Generation

The University of Kentucky reference cigarette 1R4F (MS yields per cigarette: 10.8 mg
TPM, 0.80 mg nicotine, and 11.6 mg CO; Tobacco and Health Research Institute, 1990) was
used for SS generation as previously described (Haussmann et al., in press). The cigarettes
were smoked in basic accordance with the International Organization for Standardization as
generally applied to MS generation. Room-aging was performed by continuously passing
diluted SS at a rate of 56 m‘/h through a 28-m® experimental aging room with non-inert
surfaces, resulting in RASS of a mean age of 0.5 h. In the aging room were materials usually
found in residences and/or offices, such as wallpaper painted with a latex-based white paint

(29 my, vinyl floor tites (11 m), and a polycarbonate window (2 m7) (cf, Voncken et al.,

LEEPESS LOZ ©