ROR Inter-office Memorandum

Subject: Status Report NL Project Date: February 25, 1976

To: Mr. D. P. Johnson From: a. J. Sensabaugh, Jr.
Project No.: 2394

Project Title: NL

Summary:

Regular and menthol NL~type cigarettes have been developed and
submitted to Marketing for their evaluation. These cigarettes were
designed to deliver 17 mg. "tar" and .15 mg. of nicotine. Various
blends, top-dressings, and processing changes were evaluated to reduce
the off taste and off aroma associated with the M-2000 process for
nicotine removal. Although some reduction of the off taste and off
aroma have been accomplished by removing the burley tobacco from the
blend, changing from freon to pentane, modifying M~2000 processing
conditions, and improved top-dressing, a definite off taste and off
sidestream aroma in the smoke is still present. The off Flavor and
undesirable sidestream aroma are apparently inherent to the M-2000
process,

Future work on this project will depend upon Marketing's
recommendations after evaluating the products that have been submitted,

Memorandum:

Initial testing of various types and grades of tobacco showed that
the M-2000 process did change the smoking characteristics of the tobaccos.
The processing is more detrimental to burley tobacco than flue-cured
tobacco in that the level of off taste and off aroma are greater. Evaluations
of various grades of tobacco that were M-2000 processed showed the stronger
grades reduced in strength and having smoking characteristics closer to
the milder grades. All grades evaluated had a distinct M-2000 taste and
aroma, All these observations were made using tobaccos processed in the
freon system.

Initial evaluations of WINSTON-type NL cigarettes versus a WINSTON
“Control” showed the WINSTON "Control" numerically favored in flavor
and preference with the NL significantly milder. These results are
shown in Table I.

TABLE I ~ WINSTON "Control" versus WINSTON NL

L-7415-A L-7415-B

"Control" NL N.D.
Preference 17 il 2 _
Milder , 8 19 3
Better Flavor 18 10 2

 

00h SZ00S ©

RJRt FORM 2422—Rev. 7/70