INDIANA UNIVERSITY
Medical Center

 

1100 WEST MICHIGAN STREET
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46202

SCHOOL OF MEDICINE
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY

28th April, I969. .

Dr.J. Morrison Brady,
Associate Scientific Director,
The Council for Tobacco Research,
633 Third Avenue,
New York, N.Y, IOOIL7.

Dear Dr. Brady,

It was a pleasure to. become acquainted with you at the recent
FASEB meeting in Atlantic City, and as you suggested at that time, I am
forwarding copies of my curriculum vitae and list of publications. .

Some preliminary studies in my laboratory in Australia resulted

in the recent publication-of a paper in Nature entitled " Nicotine, Smoking

and Cortical Inhibition ", a copy of which is enclosed. I hopefully suggest

that this paper may contain some of the most significant suggestions about the

psychotropic actions of nicotine to have been published and further pursuit

of these experiments may lead to a greater understanding of the psychotropic

actions of tobacco smoke. A comparison of the actions of ordinary and

"de-nicotinised" cigarette smoke on neurones in intact and isolated cortical

areas would constitute a logical extension of my preliminary experiments. I shall
_ be moving to Winnipeg later this year to head a neuropharmacology research. group,

and should like to pursue these studies as suggested above. At a later stage,

I should envisage a collaborative series of experiments with colleagues in

the Psychology Department. at Winnipeg. :

If you consider that a project along these lines entitled "A
Comparison of the actions of nicotine and tobacco smoke on single neurones in
the central nervous system" would be of interest to the Council ‘for Tobacco
Research, I should be happy to submit an application for support.

As mentioned during our recent conversation, I believe that this
technique of recording from single neurones with multiple barrel electrodes,
with which it is possible to stimulate or inhibit cells chemically, provides
a powerful tool for unraveling problems of this nature.

With best regards,
Yours sincerely,

(7 n\n

J.W.Phillis, B.V.Sce.,Ph.D.
Visiting Professor in Biophysics.