Grant 1127-aR1

fe

Herbert Y¥. Reynolds, M.D.
Professor of Medicine

- Head, Pulmonary Section

Yale University School of Medicine
333 Cedar Street os

New Haven, Connecticut 06510

 

, Respiratory Secretions in Pulmonary carcinoma: Secretory Component of Inmunoglobulin
A as an Farly } Marker of Epithelial Dysfunction.

The overall aim of this research project is to find a suitable biochemical
marker(s), which appropriately reflects the integrity and metabolic function of the
epithelial cell lining layer of the respiratory tract, yet is sensitive enough to
detect subtle cellular dysfunction before irreversible change or malignant cell
transformation occur. Central to this search is the inhalant injury produced by
cigarette smoke cn the airway lining cells. The object is to identify a marker
substance which will discriminate for young smokers at high risk to develop lung
diseases, or will select the person who is likely to develop a primary lung cancer.
To this end,, they have been examining levels of free secretory component (FSC) in

“.. lung secretions. FSC is a unique glycoprotein, synthesized and secreted by the

 

“ epithelial lining cells of the airways and its production reflects their protein
metabolic capability. Subjects have included young healtly cigarette smokers and

‘& nonsmokers and patients with a lung mass, considered to be a primary neoplasm.

  

 

 

Progress. a

(1) FSC in normal volunteers. Pinal analyses of FSC and other protein
and cellular components in lung bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) have =
' been completed in 56 subjects (32 smokers and 24 nonsmokers). ‘These
results are in press (American Review of Respiratory Diseases}. ‘To
summarize the results, a subset (20%) of young smokers have very low
levels of FSC in their airways. They may be at high or abnormal
. visk for the development of lung disease.

 

(2) FSC in lung cancer patients. To date, 93 patients | have been studied
with BAL fluid analysis. FSC values are very low in patients with |-.
squamous cell.carcinama. It appears as if the integrity of secretory
IgA is also impaired in the airways of these subjects, possibly a
reflecting an inadequate supply of FSC which is essential for coupling
to the dimeric IgA molecule. :

 

Future Plans.

OTLS8

 

(1) Adaptation of secretory ‘component. analysis to > parotia fluid, nasal
wash and expectorated sputum. :

eS
a

9

»

(2) Morphologic localization of sc in dung tissue and tunor,

‘¢

  

(3) To evaluate prospectively patients with oropharyngeal turors who are
at increased risk of developing lung tumor with sequential FSC values.

Current ‘Grant Level; $43, 260. 00.