PROJECT NUMBER: 4009 i a
PROJECT TITLE: Smoke Studies

PROJECT LEADER: B. L. Goodman

WRITTEN BY: B. L. Floyd

PERIOD COVERED: February, 1989

I. Project Studio:

A. Objective: Develop subjectively acceptable cigarettes with
reduced sidestream visibility.

B. Status: Doublewrapped models of 17.0 mm circumference cigarettes
were made with perforated and nonperforated outer wrap to
determine the effect of perforation on analytical and subjective
results and sidestream visibility. Analytically there were no
major differences, and the sidestream panel saw. no significant
differences. However, several expert smokers found a difference
in RTD between the samples, and it was felt that the nonperforated
outer wrap resulted in RTD that is unacceptably high. The
nonperforated outer wrap also resulted in a slightly higher
reduction in sidestream visibility.

Samples of Trim V outer and inner liner were submitted for
chemical analysis to determine process variation. Citrate levels
on the inner liner were consistent. with expected values and
represented acceptable variation. Phosphate levels on the outer
wrap were also consistent; succinate levels on the outer wrap were
found to be lower than levels reported by K-C.

Regular circumference cigarette models containing high and low
levels of MAP were evaluated by the sidestream panel, and the low
level sample was preferred. Several different types of CMC were
also evaluated (NH, CMC, KCMC, CaCMC) and were found to be
subjectively unacceptable.

The low sidestream 2A blend was modified for logistical

purposes. Various models were made in a 24.0 mm circumference
configuration using this modified blend and with the existing low
sidestream blend several of these models had charcoal filters at
varying loading levels. The sidestream panel evaluated these
cigarettes and felt that a 30 mg charcoal loading resulted in a
better smoke with the 2A blend. A charcoal filter does not appear
to offer the same advantage for the modified 2A blend.

The 8-port visibility instrument was installed in a lab in the cI
area, and it has been used in trial runs. There is very good
correlation between manually calculated light extinction data and
results automatically generated by the PC attached to the 8-port
instrument. Computerization of the single port has shown larger
differences in data, compared to previous light extinction values
from bit pad analysis. Several modifications to the PC collection
methodology have been made by CAD.

14

_ bstzz.tzzoz

S5RE

‘s 1 ‘

sey

S

wo: