ANNALS OF THE NEW YORK ACADEMY OF SCIENCES
Volume 643

 

THE THIRD WAVE OF
ASBESTOS DISEASE:
ixXPOSURE TO ASBESTOS
IN PLACE

PUBLIC HEALTH CONTROL

     

 

 

Edited by Philip J. Landrigan and Homayoun Kazemi

 

The New York Academy of Sciences
New York, New York
199]

Asbestos Fibers Are Mutagenic After Alk:
New Signs of Orthodoxy for a Paradoxical
Group of Carcinogens

THOMAS M. FASY

Department of Patholugs
Mount Sinai School of Medicine
New York, New Yark [0029

 

 

 

been ado

of that lime the prevailing view has been thal asbestos fibers do not have a clear
genotoxic potential. Since this view is currently undergoing a remarkable revi-
sion, this is # lmely occasion to review the matter.

Many studies of carcinogenesis point to the important role of DNA damage
and the subsequent processing of the resulting DNA lesions to yield mutations. '“*
Indeed, many carcinogens have been identified as mutagens (and vice versa) and
mutagenesis assays have been widely adopted as surrogates for use in screening
compounds for carcinogenic activity," Nonetheless, there is a growing recogni-
tion that the process of carcinogenesis involves more than a series of mutations
accumulating in critical genes and that nongenotoxic mechanisms also play an
important though poorly understood role in expanding the size of initiated clones
and by enhancing the effectiveness of genotoxic carcinogens in other ways.

The situation with asbestos fibers is far from clear. Although there is general
agreement about the ability of asbestos fibers to induce aneuploidy “and to
cause chromosome breaks and other chromosomal aberrations,''- there is dis-
agreement between authors who report that asbestos fibers can increase the fre-
quency of sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs), which are considered as a manifes-
tation of DNA damage.’*!¥ and uhose who report that ashestos fibers are not able
to increase the level af SCEs in treated cells in culture,!!??? Finally, numerous
investigators have examined the ability of asbestos fibers to damage DNA or to
induce mutations in mammalian cell specific-locus assays, and they report that
asbestos fibers have little? or no ability! 3"*-* to cause mutations tn these tests.
‘Taken together, these results have led many to the conciusion thal asbestos fibers
are most unorthodox and paradoxical carcinogens and that they may act through
mechanisms different from those employed by more familiar carcinogens, such as
electrophilic chemicals, ionizing radiation, and ultraviolet Hehe

A large part of the controversy surrounding the genotoxicity and the muta-
genicity of asbestos is semantic in nature. A mulation is commonly defined as a
heritable chanye in the genome .** Therefore, the loss or gain of an entire chromo-
some is quite properly regarded as a mutalion, Indeed, since monosomies oF
trisomies represent the loss or gain of thousands of genes, they must be consid-
ered as enormous mutations. In this regard, it is useful to recall that some of the
mutants studied by DeVries (who introduced the term and the concept of muta-

271

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

  

 

  

 

 

50523644