To:
from:

Subject:

) PHILIP MORRIS U. Se de

INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

RICHMOND, VIRGINIA

Mr. J. D. Schardt pate: June 14, 1985

G. D. Keritsis

PM CASE 641 DIVISION III

Craig in U.S. Patent 2,583,548 teaches the treatment of cellulosic pulp
containing 1% to 6% of fibers with an excessive amount (10%) of a calcium
chloride solution which gives a salt to fiber dry weight ratio from 1.6/7
to 10; causing the pulp containing the calcium chloride to a prolonged
mechanical treatment, and then adding a soluble salt such as sodium
carbonate to react with the calcium chloride to form a precipitated
calcium compound pigment.

Our case (Serial No. 519,619) differs from that of Craig in that the
cellulosic pulp is caused to swell and hydrate by chemical means by react-
ing the cellulosic pulp with the ammonium and/or alkali metal hydroxides
which in addition force the polyvalent metal ions to be fixed in the
cellulosic matrix either as a water insoluble precipitate or as a "salt"
of the cellulosic matrix. Both of these mechanisms of precipitating or
fixing metalic ions uniformly in the cellulosic matrix are probably
responsible for altering the combustion of the cellulosic substrate and
for improving the subjective character of smoke. The required amounts
of precipitated or fixed metal ions needed to achieve this effect is
significantly lower than that practiced by Craig for a different purpose
(in our case the ratio of salt to cellulosic material is less than 0.4).

Briskin, et. al., (U.S. Patent 3,640,285) deals with the treatment of
cigarette paper containing calcium or magnesium or strontium or barium
oxalate, pivalate, tannate. This paper could be produced by treating an
existing cigarette paper containing calcium carbonate with oxalic acid or
pivalis or tannic, or by adding the desired salt to the cellulosic pulp
used in the original formation of the paper web (see column 2 lines 65-69).

In this case, Briskin teaches the selection of one salt over another for

a cigarette paper and his method of treatment in no way teaches or makes
obvious the treatment of cellulosic material with hydroxides of ammonium
and/or alkalies to uniformly fix a polyvalent metal cation to the celluto-
sic matrix. In column 2 lines 37-38 “The oxalic acid solution operates to
convert calcium carbonate to insoluble calcium oxalate." We do not see any
relation in this statement to those of ours since Briskin converts one
insoluble salt, CaC03, to another insoluble salt, calcium oxalate, and
according to his earlier statement, column 2 lines 65-69 it does not make a
difference whether the oxalate is added to the paper at the pulping section
in place of calcium carbonate or is formed by treating the paper containing
the carbonate with oxalic acid. As a result our invention is in'no way

similar or obvious from the Briskin teachings. Also, it is claimed in Claim

1 that one of the anions that could be used to form the calcium salt is
"“Yactic acid" which forms calcium lactate with a very good solubility in
water! ,

£SSU8SS8202