Mr. J. D. Schardt
Page 2
June 14, 1985

In U.S. Patent 3,559,655, Briskin et. al., teach the use of certain

salts in an oxidized cellulose substrate as a smoking material. As in

the previous Briskin case (U.S. Patent 3,640,285) our invention is not
obvious as a result of the Briskin teaching, since the purpose, mechanism
and method of carrying it out, as well as, the product composition are
significantly different.

Schur, U.S. Patent 3,044,924, teaches the use of certain metallic
compounds , water soluble or otherwise, to cigarette paper to reduce a
particular substance in smoke when cigarette paper is burned. I fail
to see the relevance of this case to ours.

 

Kantrowitz et. ale, U.S. Patent 2,379,443 teaches the incorporation of
ferric ions to paper for identification purposes by means of "hydrolysis"
of ferric chloride with heat or with the addition of tri-sodium phosphate.
This treatment in no way could indicate that the subjective smoke
characteristics of a cellulosic smoking material containing a precipitated
or fixed metallic ion in its structure would be improved or that this
treatment involving the hydrolysis of ferric chloride with heat or
tri-sodium phosphate as in the Kantrowitz case would make obvious the
alkaline treatment of cellulosic material for the purpose of precipitating
and fixing such metallic ions as calcium, pagnesium, iron and aluminum to
the cellulosic substrate. The mechanisms as well as the treatments are
different, and actually in the Kantrowitz case the ferric chloride alone
at 140°F functions just as well or better than the combined treatment with
tri-sodium phosphate (column 4 lines 9-12).

Hansen et. al., U.S. Patent 2,337,887, teaches the formation of a cellulosic
ether, in this case carboxymethyl cellulose, which in itself is a gum or
binder having carboxylic groups available for reation with metallic cations
to form salts. In the case of reaction with aluminum or titanium it forms
water insoluble salts. This type of reaction with the particular modified
cellulose does not require an alkaline treatment as in our case, if anything
an acid treatment or low pH will form the “precipitate” that Hansen claims.
Under alkaline conditions the CMC-salt will be in solution. The Hansen
treatment will not allow the precipitated salt to be uniformly distributed
within the cellulose, especially since the modified cellulose (CMC) is such
a large molecule and the best it could be hoped is to coat the surface of
the cellulose fibers with such a salt. From this treatment our process

was not obvious since there is no relation of one treatment to the other.
What Hansen et. al., have accomplished is to convert cellulose to carboxy-
methyl] cellulose (an acid) and react this acid with an aluminum or titanium
containing substance to form an insoluble salt on the surface of the formed
paper containing a portion of the CMC.

/dbb

SSSPSss7o7