Geb, DeHaan ne Beg May 13, 1983

 

 

“Beach. Promotions

 

‘Beach. promotions were conducted in Daytona Beach for SALEM and.
Ft, Lauderdale for CAMEL. -Volleybal) ‘tournaments, designed to:
“capture the. SALEM Spirit campaign, were extremely popular with :
“younger adults. Likewise, CAMEL's Giant ‘Tire Challenge and.
 Tyg-of-Har encourage competitiveness among the’ brand's prime =~.
“prospects 8 0 SE at a re

 

~-Expo-Anerica MusicFest

 

“The :SALEM brand sponsored nine concerts -in ‘the Expo America Music
“Fest. . All concerts provided an ‘opportunity for sampling and
“display of SALEM signage. . SALEM's sponsorship of the MusicFest
‘was an effective means of reaching the brand's prime prospect as
the roster. of performers was impressive...” .

 
  

“COMPETITIVE ACTIVITY“.
“Four competitive tobacco companies were involved in Spring Resort. Marlboro
was the most visible, distributing large quantities of T-shirts and caps
while sampling their Marlboro brand styles.-:"Buttons,".a major club in

 

 

- Ft, Lauderdale was ‘the center of Mar}boro promotional activities.

“Newport was involved in low level club. activities. However, their major
effort was street intercept sampling. © Se oe

Lucky Strike Filters were sampled from a tram in Daytona Beach, Also,
American Tobacco distributed -Lucky Strike ballpoint pens and other low level

premiums.

U. S$. Tobacco sampled Skoal at the Playboy Expo.

RECOMMENDATIONS

In order to present a unified program that involves the prime prospect in
a variety of select, image-enhancing events, the following recommendations

should be considered for 1984 planning:

 

@ Suppliers

The use of more than one supplier per market results in confusion and
loss of executional control. A more unified effort will be possible
by the use of a single supplier per market.

@ Program Planning and Development

In order to increase our presence, promotional rights require sell-in

as early as September for execution the following March/April. Advance
planning would allow the Sampling Operations Group to retain a professional
supplier to sell-in our program in key resort areas and obtain promotion
exclusivity in many locations.

   
  
 
 
  
  
 

 
 
  

 
  
   
 
  
  
  
    
 
   

w
o
uw
on
oo
a
ed
a
tv