Ge be Defame : May 13, 1983

    

    
     

“Whtle many elements ofthe program were used inal) markets, all were
wexecuted’in the Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale markets. Que to the com--

plexity of the program and variety: of elements involved, three suppliers... ....

“were utilized to execute Spring Resort activities in these markets.” |.”

 
 
 
  
  

 

Supptier Responsibility

  
  

Taylor Shain, Inc. :

  

 

Metacorp BS Z :
-~ SALEM/CAHEL “Field Mktg. Program”. SALEN/CAMEL Field Mktg. (Padre ‘Island only)
~ CAMEL Amazon ‘Adventure eee CAMELWOFKS ooo se
: SALEM Magazine & Welcome Kit - ‘Island Express -~ : :
CAMEL Concerts ae So The Sune fos

“+ SALEM Concerts ©... CAMEL Oasis

 

- Promotional Marketing ‘ s
SALEM Expo Anerica MusicFest

 

 

" - PERSONNEL

—e

e. Metacorp .

Ss Steve Berkowitz, President of Metacorp and Jim Sarles, Vice President -
7 Field Marketing were accountable for overall management of Field Marketing
‘ activities in seven markets, including Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale.

The Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale markets were executed by four
experienced Metacorp market managers: Scott Rudio, Dixie Stephens,

Cla. “ia Fantaci, and Jean Tininsky. Metacorp's simultaneous involvement
in the CAMEL Winter Resort Program resulted in an over-extension of man-
agement personnel. Thus the lack of supplier management caused a negative
impact on the Spring Resort Program.

« Promotional Marketing

‘ Management/execution of the Expo America Program was the responsibility of
: Alan Swift; President of Promotional Marketing. The SALEM MusicFest was

 

\ presented in a manner consistent with the Brand's image. Both the concerts
‘i and other elements of the Expo America Program were executed effectively
: for the SALEM Brand. Karen Baver-Swift and Steve Gilbreith of Promotional

Marketing assisted in the development and execution of the SALEM Expo
: America Program. :

e Taylor Shain, Inc.

Taylor Shain, Inc. executed the Padre Island market exclusively, and
managed certain elements of the Daytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale markets,
such as the CAMELworks, Island Express, The Sun, and the CAMEL Oasis.
Field marketing activities in Padre Island were executed according to
: plan; however, adverse weather contributed to executional difficulties.
fs , Rain dampened computer circuitry caused major problems with the CAMELworks
laser fireworks display. Jerry Taylor, Ed Shain, and Paul Hanna managed
Taylor Shain's efforts in Padre Island, Daytona Beach, and Ft. Lauderdale.

w
Q
w
an
2
w
oO
oa
o-