G.

OVERALL FINDINGS

 

. Overall program execution. was effective; however’, due to:

“dy the major markets. Inclement weather adversely affected outside active.”
~ <4tdes such as pooldeck and beach promotions. In summary ;: the major factors .
that contributed to a loss of impact were: le Be ee

~e=Use of three suppliers in one market |
“eeAbsence of street and retail presence

“Summary of Major Promotions

  
   

L. DeHaan os, whe May 13, 1983

Execution of Oaytona Beach and Ft. Lauderdale Markets

 

   
 
   
 
 
 

 

je -complexity se."
of executions, variety of events and multiplicity of competitive promoters, °:
‘significant brand dominance was not achteved. Several additional factors
contributed to a loss of impact. The use of three suppliers in the major =...
markets, Daytona Beach and Ft, Lauderdale, resulted in confusion and the.
inability to maintain a unified effort to deliver the program objectives.
Also, the absence of retail and street presence minimized brand awareness.

~-Complexity of execution (use of ‘two. brands) =

--Inclement weather

--CAMEL Amazon Adventure

The CAMEL Amazon Adventure invited consumers to experience CAMEL's
advertising imagery first hand. Within the tent were live plants,
a waterfall, a rope bridge and other exhibits designed to capture
the imagination of the prime prospect. However, the outside appear- *
ance of the tent and the absence of exterior brand-identifled signage
resulted in a negative impact on the consumer.

~-Pooldeck Promotions

In total, over 1,000 pooldeck promotions were conducted, divided
between CAMEL and SALEM. The activities created involvement and a
spirit of competitiveness among rival colleges. The CAMEL Ladder
Challenge and SALEM Water Wheel, new activities this year, were well
received by the target audience. : .

--CAMELworks

The intent of the CAMELworks laser fireworks display was well positioned
but executional difficulties occured due to rain dampened computer
circuitry. .

=-Club Promotions:

The level of club promotional activity was reduced this year in order
to capitalize on sampling and signage opoortunities in a wider variety
of clubs. The overall impact of the club program was greater $n 1983
then in previous years when we conducted major activities in only major
clubs.

boos 89S0S