‘Continue the development of a screening technique for inhibitors
of the ‘larval midgut symbiont. We are close to developing a sterilization
technique that does not significantly reduce egg hatch. Following development —
of this technique, an tn vivo assay will be developed to demonstrate the impact
‘of the symbiont on growth. Upon completion of these two phases, Ms. Debbie
“Ayers (Scientist--Project No. 6904) will initiate a series of tests with -
fungicides against the _Symbiont. New tobacco _Processing technology. .

 

 

a We will initiate. a study of the Light attractancy of prism
projected rays. Field work with color panels indicates grey to be the
color of choice to adult cigarette beetles while black, dark blue, red,
and green are less attractive. In an attempt to confirm this with
natural light, we will project light through a prism onto the ground
glass end of a black box containing cigarette beetle adults and observe
their response. New tobacco ._ Processing technology. vou

 

“| The “study | ‘of beetle ‘survival at various “combinations of
‘temperature and R.H. will be continued. ' We have data at 5°F increments
from ~20°F to +20°F. Beginning at +25°F, we shall continue to collect COS
data in (°F increments. to +40°F. New tobacco Processing technology. wee

 

Pheromones”

. We shall continue to evaluate the synthetic sex pheromone
;, against ‘the cigarette beetle conducting field studies using the Japanese
_ pheromone, serricornin®, the PM synthesized pheromone, and controls as
. monitoring agents. Release rates, longevity, and pheromonal enhancing
agents will also be studied. Natural tobacco. flavors (medium term) and —
new tobacco processing technology.

     

ae 2. Aggregation Pheromone

     
  
 

We will examine for the presence of a cigarette beetle :
aggregation pheromone. An aggregation pheromone which would attract both ~
sexes would be more beneficial than a sex pheromone. Air, passing over
adults and through a column of tenax will be bioassayed for activity. .--  .
Should activity be demonstrated, attempts will be made to isolate and ees
identify the compound or compounds. Natural tobacco flavors (medium
term) and new tobacco processing technology. :