- Tobacco Ar

 

  

a uh

a ' + Reports in the literature have shown cigarette beetle
“attraction to some Turkish tobacco constituents. We plan a series of

extractions of various types of tobaccos for bioassays against the ciga-
rette beetle. This project will be conducted cooperatively with Dr. Bill .
Edwards (Associate Senior Scientist--Project No. 2520). Natural tobacco flavo
(medium term) and new tobacco processing technology. §.4"),' pages

    

           
 
 
 

   
   
 
 
  
  

   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

Ts

   

we
shy

   
    
   

 

_F. |. Pupal Cell Cases

">. Principal Investigators

 
  

   

    

ran

  
 

Cx ie

—Dr Daryl Faustini and Ms.

  
 
 
 

      

Marie

Minor

 

fag ey

A i

 

da pieg ft 3

ey ‘“ 1. * Preliminary data indicate that pupal cell cases are toxic
to first instar larvae of the cigarette beetle. “Sequential extractions of
-these cases will be used to isolate the toxic agents: for identification. |
‘This is a cooperative endeavor with Dr. Al Warfield (Associate Senior .
. Scientist--Project No. 6908). Natural tobacco flavors (medium term) and |
~.mew tobacco processing technology. is San fe we Lege ci

BR 2. Upe successful isolation and identification of any toxic
‘, compounds, we shall attempt to determine their source within the insect.
~Natural tobacco flavors (medium term) and new tobacco. processing technology.

ri
ue Asa mw *

 
   

  
 
 
       
    
     
  

      

   

TBR age we POS e

    

'

 
 
 

   

 

er ea  ? . Chae tek

 

 

wt

 

          
    
       
           
      
    
    
   
   
 
 
 
   

  

ay » *

         

   
  

   

 

        

a

tigator--Mr. J.

- Principal Inves

pele

   
 
 

 

ng .(Research Scientist)
“.).) "Continue the investigation for an antifeedant to be incorporated,

as an insect repellent to beetle penetration, in cigarette packages. Currently,
‘many antifeedants are extracted from exotic plants and trees grown in India. ~~.
and Africa. These would not be readily available sources of compounds. Recent |
_Yeports in the literature point to the presence of antifeedants in citrus ;:
pulp and china berries. We plan to continue extracting china berries for |
bioassay and enter into a program examining citrus pulp as these would be °*
‘vu st domestically available sources. This is a joint venture with Mr. Harvey .
+» Grubbs (Associate Senior Scientist--Project No. 2525). ‘Natural tobacco
ovo": £lavors (medium term) and new tobacco processing technology. =.

 

 

7 a i Light Trap Efficiency . ce ae . foe
ae Principal Investigator--Mr. Robert Lehman.
- The figures 1-3% effective are often used when describing the >
. efficiency of black light suction traps for capturing adult cigarette beetles.
sf We shall initiate a study of trapping efficiency by releasing genetically
. marked cigarette beetles into tobacco warehouses and determining percentage
fe rae capture. New tobacco processing technology. ee mS or

. . of