* Continue to ) monitor the efficacy ‘of the surface treatment ‘of
oriental bales with KABAT, for beetle control. This will be done by

examining treated bales in the falls of 1982, 1983, and 1984. Principal
Tevestigator--Dr- Daryt Faustini. New tobacco processing technology.

ie RB aaa “Continue to assist the stemmeries. with their analytical
problens. _ Principal Tnvestigator--Mr. J. 5. Long.

i. ‘C.. “Monitor all warehouses storing “only KABAT® treated tobacco. :
‘Principal Investigators--Mr. J. Ss. Long: and Ms. Marie Minor. New tobacco vas
Processing | technology. Sa

+

 

“ : 1 se.

 

vo OD. a Provide technical assistance to foreign affiliates and licensees
that may initiate KABAT® treatment programs. Principal Investigators~-Staff.
New _ tobacco processing technology. : Coe

~The subobjectives related to objectives B. and C. are as follows:

 

Lag ¢

vr : Assistance will be given « on request to areas experiencing
‘insect control problems. Principal Investigators--Staff. New tobacco
Processing technology. . me Ct

B. ‘All long range monitoring programs involving steam “and me
vacuum-steam cycle efficacy tests will be continued. Principal Tnvestigator-—
_, Staff. ,, New tobacco processing technology. :
yes ath, : ys. . : ns " aan
Work closely with Tobacco ‘Products. ‘Standards. to assure that new
processes and technology do not impact negatively on insect control... In
addition to as needed contact, quarterly meetings will be held for informative
purposes relating to new processes. Principal Investigator--Mr. J. S. Long.

     

Mey

 

=D. We have accepted an assignment whereby we shall provide quality
assurance services to Philip Morris International by certifying that tobacco _
, destined for shipment to Aruba is not heavily infested with cigarette beetles. o
... This will be accomplished by sampling each shipment, incubating the samples  .- °°
for 21 days, and examining for the existence of a beetle infestation. .
Principal Investigator--Mr. J. S. Long. New tobacco processing technology.

   

 

Sb8226200T