po Jou: oF SaoLocecal CHMEITET
leeT py The Amareces Seneey tor Duechemuscry ant Malersinr Beaiegy. Lax

bY ¢ 5 Wel 772, Ne 4d. Lages of Newwmbur 25. pe M0180
Pras

moda

Overexpression of Cellular Src in Fibroblasts Enhances Endocytic
Internalization of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor*

(Received for publication, March 3, 1997, and in rewped form, August 20, 1997"

Margaret F. Waret, David A. Ticet, Sarah J. Parsonsl, and Dongiss A. Lauffenbergersi

From the $Department of Chemical E)

and Canter for Biomedical Ei

, Momachusetts Inatitute of

PETA
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts G21S9 and \Depersment: of Microbiology and Cancer Canter, University of Virguua

Health Scunces Censer, Charlottesville, Virginic 22903

receptor (EGFR) in tumorigenesis. Aithough endocytic
internalization of EGFR may be thought to attenuate
EGF-stimulsted signaling, recent evidence sugyvets that
signaling through Ras can be amplified by repeated en-
counters of endosome-localized, receptor She-Grb3-Sos
complexes with the plasms membrane, where Ras re-
sides almost exclusively. Based on these reports, we a7:
amined EGFR trafficking hehavior in a set of single and
double ¢-BrevEGFR C3H101T% overaxpressors to dater-
mine if e-Sre affects basal receptor half-life, ligand-in-
duced internalization, and/or recycling. Our results
show that overexpreasion of c-Sre causes Bo change in
EGFR half-life but dose produce ap increase in the in-
ternalization rate conetant of EGF-EGFR complexes
when the endocytic apparatus is not stoichiometrically
saturated; this effect of c-Src on EGFR endocytosis is
negligible at high receptor occupancy in eells overez-
preaming the receptor. in neither case are EGFR recycling

functional role for oSre in receptor
which in turn could alter some aspects of EGFR eignal-
ing related to mitogenesis and tumorigenesis.

OO

The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a 170-kDs
transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase that binds a number
of related peptide growth factors, inchading epidermal growth
factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor-a. Binding of
ligand ts EGFR induces cransphoepborylation on several C-
terminal tyrosyl reaidues, which upon phosphoryiation bind
the SH2 domains of various signaling molecules, including Shc,
Grb2, PLCy (1, 2), and Shp2 (3). Aasociation of these molecules
with ths EGFR results in their activation, either vis changes in
subcellular localization (thereby bringing them into jurtaposi-
thon with their substrates) or by tyrosyl phosphorylation (in-
ducing conformational changes and enzymatic activation).

i
* This work waa supported by Natonal Institutes of Health Grant
CA8#213 and Nanonal Science Foundation Grant BES-9596153 ito
D. A L) apd by National Inssmates of Health Grants CAS9438 and
CAT1449 and Council fur Tobaces Research Grant 4621 (wo 8. 5. P.). Tha
conus of publication of this arucle were defrayed in part by the payment
of page charges. Thia article must therefore ba bereby marked “adver.
omen ah accordance with 18 U.S.C. Secnon 1734 solely to indicate
{To whom correspondence abould be addressed. Dept. of Chemica
and Center for Biomedical Engineering, 56-341, MIT,
Cambridge, MA 02139. TeL: 617-252-1629; Fax’ 617-258-0204.
+ The abbremauons osed are: EGFR. epidermal growth factor recep-
tor; eSre. caller Sre, DMEM, Dulbeoco's modified Eagle's medium: IC,
wternalzanen component

This paper ia available on fine at hnpy/were ibeorg

These activated molecules then initiate mgnaling cascades that
culminate in @ varisty of responses. including cell divinon (4).
EGFR has been linked to the process of oncogenens pa well
as to normal mitogenesis. The chicken proto-oncogene for
EGFR was one of the first cellular genes found to be transduced
by a retrovirua and shown to function es an oncogene (see for
example Ref, 5), Increased exprvssicn of EGFR is seen in many
human tumors, including giioblasomas/nsuroblastomas and
carcinomas of the breast, bladder. kidney, stomach. ovary,
prostate, and lung (6-10), suggesting & vole for EGFR in the
etiology of these diseases. In some experrmental eal! systems.
i of EGFR by itself leads to malignant transfor.
mation when celle are grown is the conminucus presence of EGF
{1L, 12).

Callular Sre (c-Sre) is a 60-kDa nonreceptor tyrosine Kinase,
the first proto-oncogens identified is humans. Arole for ¢-Sre mn
EGFR-mediated responses has been demonstrated by a pum-
ber of studies. First, overexpression of wild-type ¢-Sre in
C3H10TY murine Sbroblaswe expressing normal levels of re-
eeptor (3-10 X iC” receptors/cell) potenhated £GF-directed
maitogenesis, whereas overexpression of dominant negative
variants of c-Sre not only ablated the enhanced mitogenic re-
eponse but alac interferred with the endogenous reaponse (13,
14), These findings indicated that ¢-Sre is required for EGF-
induced mitogenemis, a conciumon wubwtantiated by Roche (15).
In mubsequant rvudies, Mas et al. (16) reported that overexpres-
aon of both e-Sre and EGFR in 10T% cells (1-3 x 10! receptors’
cell} resulted in synergistic increases in EGF-dependent
growth and tumor formation in nude mice.

The mechaxusm(s) by which c-Src influences the biological
action of the EGFR are not entirely elucidated, although sev-
eral studies have provided clues to the problem. c-Src bas been
found aasciated with EGFR in bream cancer call lines (17).* in
Sbroblasta both c-Sre and the recaptor (16), and
in A431 colle (19), In Sbrobiasts, this association is EGF-de-
pendent and reqults in the appearance of two novel tyrosy!
pbosphorytetions on the receptor and increased phosphoryla-
tion of receptor substrates in vive (16). These findings wuggest
that ¢-Sire potentiates the action of the EGFR by binding to it
and inducing ita phosphorylation, resulting in bypersctivation
of the receptor and enhanced downstream signaling. Several
svadies have attempted to localize the site of ¢-Sre binding to
the receptor, unng in vitro peptide competition approaches (17,
BO, 21), Tyr-982 ws the most consisentiy poticed site, but other
‘Tyr residues have also been implicated, suggesting that ¢-Gre
mey bind muitple mtes. Acnvacon of eSre folowing EGF
stimulation of Sbroblasts overerpreaning EGFR has also been
reported (22, 23), suggesting that the two tyrosine nnases are
capable of mutual) reguianon.

Oe
14S. Buscerdi, A P. Beiscbes, and 5. J. Parsons, suhmitiad for
publicanon,

30185

 

PUBLICATIONS
60163086

058430