30186

Hints also exist that c-Src may influence endocytic traffick-
ing of EGFR A cignificant fracoon of c-Sre in Gbroblasts hes
been found associated with endosomes (24), and the SH3 do
main of oSre is capable of binding and activating dypamun (25),
| GiPase tbat localizes to the plasma membrane and is @
regulstor of endocytoms (26-28). Bergeron and co-workers re-
sed in Ref, 20) have evidence that salecuve and regulated
signal transduction from receptor tyrosine Kinases can CoD”
nue within the endosome. Finally, Wang and Moran (30)
recently reported the requirement for the mena) transducer,
Grb2, in endocytosis of EGFR.

With these fanore in mand, we undertook an examination of
umngie and double eSrvEGFR overexpressors to determine if
F Ere had ax effect on endocyGc internalization and recyeling af
EGFR We have obtained the new finding that ¢-Sre increases
the rate of endocytoais of EGF-EGFR complexse until the en-
docytic apparatus is saturated and becomes rate-limiting. e-Sre
hes no effect on EGP-EGFR complex recycling. In the context of
previous findings, our resulta suggest that, among multiple
Pechanisma, c-Gre may potentiate the action of EGFR by en-
hancing complex internalization, possibly amplifying signaling
through an endosome-associated intermedista.

Maserisl - EGF was wolated from mouse submaxillary glands by
Tr. Sieve Wiley at the University of Urab (31) and was subsequently
eainated with I (AmarahamD) uiung odobeads (Piarce) following the
manufsccurer’s protocol Specife activites were peneraliy ~150,000

 Dulbecee’s modified Eagie’s medium (OMEN), Dulbecco's phoe-

lines used bave been described previously (13, 14. 36). Easentially,
LOT cnlls were firet transfected with « plasmid expreating # neomy-

jde expressing ¢ Decmyco-ren
Nance and o falrbength wild-type avian cere pune (SH), of placmads
expresnng both « neomycit-resutance und « Kinape-defectve #760

 

PUBLICATIONS
60163087

c-Sre Enhances Internalization of EGFR -

A

counts per minute

counts per minute

 

ame (min)
p of surface and internal counts of (A) EGFR

Fria. 1. Compariso!
(NR) and (B) e-SirvEGFR (SHR) ove re as function of
tines. EGF was added wo the cells at = 0. Closed cxrcies, surface counts:
open curcies, internal coun.

0 °C, and the calla were washed fur times with 1ov-cold WHIPS buffer
{20 mus Hepes, pH 7.4, 440 ma NeC}, § ma KCL 0.5 mw MgCl, } ma
CaCl, 1 mefal polyninylpyrrotidine). Surtace-bound hgand was re
moved by acd etripmng at 0°C (60 mas piyapeHCl, 100 ma NaCl. 2

banding
where C, < 100 complexewcel)

‘The recycling rubs constant Was slwrnacvely dewermined wslDe
pulse-chase ta. Calls were fret incubated 2s ranows conces”
eeveons of labeled EGF for 6 min at $7 °C. After 6 min. the plates were
cnaferred 100°C, the EGF was aspirated, and ~90 % surface bound
Aigpnd saa ramnoved by acid ep without urea to retain the ably of
ea (33), Each pista was rinasd with phoephate-busfered saline ané

TE

058431