a

c-Sre Enhances Internalization of EGFR

counts per minute

 

EGF concencasion (ng/ml)

counts per minute

 

10 100

1
EGF concentration (ng/ml)

Fro. 6. Comparison of long tern
SounGYmID are represen
sbows for A. NR icveies) and SHR (auarey), and 2, Neo icurcies) and 5H
C. NR (open bars) and SER (ciosed bars), and D, Neo (open bers) and 5H (
demations

acid strip or insufficient cold chase, revulting in reinternalize-
tian of labeled ligand. Analysis of pulse-chase date negiects any
internalization af iabaled tigand: the presence of axees unla-
beled Ligand and te light acid strip removes any labeled ligand
from the internalization poal The analysis used to calculate’
endocytic rate constant into secount, resulting in the calcule-
tion of a higher recycling rate cunstant

‘To determine if differences in recycling were hidden by assay
maenainvity, steady-state values for the sumbers of internal
and surface EGF-EGFR ecmplezes (C, C,) were meamured for
all four call lines. Fig. 6, panels A and C, show that at all
concentrations of surface complexes, the SHR cell line exhibited
a higher ratio of C, to C, than the NR eal] line, consistant with
ita increased EGFR internalization rate constant and up
changed EGFR recyrling rate constant. This trend remains for
concentrations of ligand that saturate the endocytir machinery,
which is not consiment with the abeerved endocytic rate con-
stants. This implies there could indeed be some differences in
Yeeycling rate or sorting fractions at high . There
could alec be an effect due to degradation by Sh There were no
significant differences between the 5H and Neo cell lines, sven
though their internalization rate constants differed (Fig. 4,
Panels B and D). Sines the internalization rate constante were
lower for the 6H and Nec call lines compared with the SHR and
NR lines, it was not surprining that the effect of endocytic
Synamics on meady-atate receptor distribution was minimal for

Ii:

PUBLICATIONS
60163090

1% be imereased until the

30189
c

 

001 Ot 1
EGF concentration (ng/ml)

CVC:

 

1 at
EGF concentration (ng/ml)

wafficking behavior of EGFE, Sec, and ¢-8rcEGFR overexpressors intemal and surface
tive ef the sumber of EGF-EGFR complexes. Surface counts (apen markers) and interna counte (elomed markers) are
ratio

tequares}. The of interns] to surface counts u compared between

AL date represent 2 = 3. Error bora represent mandard

(closed bars).
the former (32). To fully answer this question, assays more
sensitive than any currently available would need to be
developed.

DISCUSSION

Gur data demonstrate 2 new functional roie for ¢-Sre ip
EGFR trafficking dynamics, specifically with respect to recep.
vor endocytosis and staady-sate levels of internalized receptar.
Inervesed rate constants for EGFR internalization were ob-
served in ¢-Sre overexpressors relative to control calle express-
ing endogenous levels of c-Src. Internalization rates were found

machinary became satu-
rated at high levels of EGF-EGFR complexes. Increased inter
alization rates were also reflected in the larger steady-state
peal of internalized EGFR in cells both EGFR
and c-Sre compared with calis overexpressing EGFR alons.

Our experimental mathodology for studying EGF-induced
EGFR internalization and recycling has relied on using 1.
labeled EGF to follow EGF-EGFR complexes. EGF-EGFR com-
Plazes have been found to remain largely wssociated during
endescmal vorting (37), and previous work has demonstrated
consistency of this methodology with other approaches to quan-
tifying EGFR trafficking processes (33).

‘The mechanism by which c-Sre affects EGFR internalizetion
is not known, but an examination of the endocytic process
Fields same possible clues. Ligand-ectivated EGFRs are re-
cruited into clathrin-coated pits by ap unknown component of

058434