ne

  

c-Sre Enhances Internalization of EGFR 30187
A
9 a
: a
wer . am
2005
z sod ,
“
o

relative receptor mass

 

6 3 10 1s » 2
me (hours)

Pic. 2. Effect of o-Gre on the basal half-life of EGFR, from
pulse-chase experiments Data are gven in mean relative densiten-
eter unite normalised to the mean +b readings. NR calls (closed
squares) and SHR celis (closed circles) exhibit essenually equivaient
turnover ratea in the abaence of EGF. Error bare represent the sandardg
error of the mean.

placed at 37°C in prewarmed DHB. The DHE was aspirated, and
eacons cold EGF was added at regular time mtervala. At ench time
pout, the unlabeled EGF was aspirated at 0 °C. and the cells were
waabed x nines with ice-cold WHIPS buffer. Acid strip with ures wat
tuned to remove any suriace-bound ligand, and internalized ligand was
determined by solubilixing cells in 1 N NaOH 91 37°C for ih The
recychng rate conatant could be computed from the alope of a plot of in
C, versus ¢ (32), aeeuming that ligand degradation was negiigihie. To
eseess Ube amount of degraded ligand, the unlabeled EGF chase was
collected rather than aspirated and passed over s G-15 Sephadex onl.
umn (34),

RESULTS

Previous work bas shown ab association of ¢-Sre with both
EGFR (16-19) and endosomal membranes (24). These associ-
ations, along with the increase in mitogenesis observed in cells
overexpressing ¢-Src upon incubation with EGF (13), suggest a
mechanusm of action for c-Sre in mitogenic signaling events
that involves EGFR trafficking. To determine whether traffick-
ing parameters are affected by c-Sre, the basal half-life of
EGFR and EGF-induced internalization and recycling rate con:
stante were measured as described under “Experimental
Procedures.”

C3H10T% myarine fibroblasts owererpressing EGFE alone
(NR) or overexpressing beth c-Sre end EGFR (SHR) were ex-
amined for effects of c-Src on the basal EGFR half-life by
{*Shmethionine pulse-chase analyzie. Pig. 2 shows that EGFR
in the NR cells and SHR calls exhibit turnover hali-times of
approximately 20 and 22 h, respectively, in the absence of EGF.
Thus, c-Sre overexpression has little or no effect on intrinsic
EGFR turnover.

EGF-induced endocytic rata constants (h,) for EGFR were
measured for the following panal of C3H10T Abrobiasta: neo-
mycin-resistant only (Neo), c-Sre overaxpressors (5H), Kinase
defective c-Sre ovarexpressors (430), EGFR Ovwrexpressara
(NR), and c-SrvEGFR double overexpreasors (SHR). Repre-
sentative internalization deta sre ebewn m Fig. 3. The endo
cytc rate constants are simply the slopes of the times shown
Ponels A and B reflect rates at a low number of surface com-
plazas (<30G/cail). It is clear that both of the cell mes overez-
Preesing c-Sre (SHR and 5H} had increased endocytoxis rates
compared to their respective counterparts, Panel C demon-
Firates that the c-Src effect was not seex at all lewals of surface
compiexes. The number of aurface complezes in pane! C ig 2
orders cf magnitude higher than those in A or B. For this
Grcumstance, the cells overexpressing ¢-Sre had the name en-

is Pate as those with endogenous levela.
The entire range of endocytic rate constants measured for

PUBLICATIONS

 

C, (cpm)

 

o 1900 200 300 400 400
IC, at (cpmemun)

 

lone 0) F080 2onnd sens aco sone sen

JC, dt (cpmemin)
Pha. 3. Campariagn of the endocytic rute of EGFR and o-Sro’

+ EGFE overexprassors at two levels of surtace complenas. A and

& represent endocytic rata at low C, (~3Xvcal]: C represents tha
endocytic rate at high C, (20,000Qenll). A and C represent receptor
overexpransors. NR iciosed cvcies) and SHR ‘closed aquares), 8 repre
sents endogenens receptar levels, Nec iopen cirvies) and SH lopen
squares).

the various cel] lines is shown in Fig. 4. Fig 4A shows that a:
the average number of surface EGF-EGFR compiezes drops
below 5,000, the endocytic rate constant for the SHR cell line
increased dramatically, whereas the rave constant for the NR
eatt tine reeched a plateau. Neo and 5H cell lines aiso exhibited
a difference in internalization rate constants in thus Tepon
(Fig. 4B), the average 4, value for the Neo cell line was 0.042 =
0,016, whereas the average value for the 5H cell line was
0.096 = 0.014. These data demonstrate that c-Sre can cause an
increase in EGFR internalization rate. The EGFR internalize-

058432

~~ 60163088

a