30188

2

ors

Endocytic rate constant (I/min) >

endocylic rate constant (imin) @

Neo SH 430
Pic. 4. Comparison af the endocytic behavior of (4) EGFR and
overexpressors and (8) o-Gre overexpressor: and

average of several (perween 2 and 8) ruts consiazts taken i that regice.
3. che deca tar the Nes cull tine ions der) are 5 = 6, for the 5H call Line
(closmd bur} aren © 7, and ter the 430 caf tine (ohasded bar) ares = 4,
a) with average surface complazes below 3 X 10°. Error bers represest.
manderd drmatians.

thom rate constant in tha 430 cell line is somewhat lower than
for the Neo call lina (Fig. 43) but not with statistical eignifi-
capes (k, = 0.023 = 0.014), At high receptor eccupancy levels
above §,000 surface complaxas/eell, endocytic rate constants for
SHR and NR were identical due to saturation af the endocytic
apparamas (35, 96). Becsuse of the low level of EGFR expressed
in tha 6H and Neo cell Linas, we were unable to saturate the

Note, comparing Fig. 44 with 48, that the internalisation
rate constants for the Neo and NR oell lines exhibit different
averages at low receptor cecupancy. This is most binely dus te
differences in the overall average C, values between the two
cell lines. Since Neo therefore exhibits a larger average C, (data
not shown), the internalization rate constant should be slighty
Jower than for NR

"So check for apecifcity of the o-Sre effect, endocytic rate
constants for the SHIR and NE call lines ahould be measured far
a different ligand/receptar pair. Tha trenaferrin receptor hat
beet previously abown to internalize independently of receptor
occupancy and to be unaffected by the presence of ssturating

Bheveis of EGP, indicating that transferrin receptor internaliza-
tion follows a different mechanian than that of EGFR (36).

ee mam

PUBLICATIONS
60163089

   

c-Src Enhances internalization of EGFR

0.06

 

0.05

recycling rate constant (S/nin} >
ewe
:

  
   

pas bento aeeebe saat

low

ole

a12

recycling rate constant (l/min) ao
ge

high
Fic. 5. Comparisons of the recycling behavior of EGFR and
averaxpressors for two protocols. The recycling rate
consents are shown for the (A) pulse-chase protons) and (B) unternal-
Toe recycling rate constants for the SHR icioeed bar’
‘and NR (open bar) call lines are shown at high (6,000-40.000) and low
($009,000) pombers of internal complexes (n = 2-6). The average
number of internal complexes was taken ss an integral average over
tume for each A,, Error bars represmnt mandard éerienons

Accordingly, we teated the effect of e-Sre on the internalization
rate constant of transferrin receptor. The SHR and NR cell
lines ware found to internalize transferrin cimilarly, exhibiting
rate constante of 0.25 = 0.09 and 0.30 = 0.03 (n = 4), respec
tively. Thus, the effect of c-Sre appears to be specific.

To determina if other parameters of receptor wrafficking sre
affected by ¢-Sre. recycling rate constants (k,) wert measured
using two different protocols as described under “Experimental
Procedures.” Tha Bret method involved pulaing ths cells for 5
min in labeled ligand followed by mp unlabeled ligand chase.
The analyais for thie protocel follows the decrease of interns!
receptor/ligand complexes with time. Since thia analysis as-
umes the axocunt of degraded ligand is negligible, we verified
that thers was no significant degraded ligand within the ex-

i ta] time period of 40 min (date not shown). The recy-
cling rata constant showed no significant trends either within
or batween cell lines (Fig. 5A).

An alternative measure of the recycling rate cmstant was
obtained from the internalization data. instead of ploting the
gumber of internal complexes (C,) as a function of the average
number of surface complexes over time ({C,dt), C, - k,JC,de
was plotted as a function offCydt, yielding e straight line with
a alope of -4,. Tha results of these experimmnts also yielded bo
apperent affect of ¢-See on recycting rate conmants, although
the magnitude of the recycling rata constant was roughly 2-fold
greater in this assay (Fig. SB) than in the pulse/chase sesay
(Fig. 5A). The differences in recycling rate noted between pro”
tocols could be due to insufficient surface stnpping by the light

058433