Biomed. & Pharmacother., 43 (1989) 19-23 19
© Elsevier, Paris

Dossier

Nicotine potentiates the effects of haloperidol in animals
and in patients with Tourette syndrome

P.R. SANBERG', B.J. McCONVILLE', H.M. FOGELSON’, P.Z. MANDERSCHEID',
K.W. PARKER’, M.M. BLYTHE', W.M. KLYKYLO! and A.B. NORMAN!

' Divisions of Neuroscience and Child Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry,
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, QH 45267—0559, USA; and
? Department of Pediatric Neurology, Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA

(Received 3-11-1988; accepted 15-11-1988)

Summary — Nicotine was found to markedly potentiate haloperidol-induced hypokinesia in rats. Nicotine alone
was without effect. Subsequently, concurrent administration of 2 mg nicotine gum to 10 Tourette syndrome patients
being treated with haloperidol produced a substantial decrease in tics and improvement of concentration and
attention span. Nicotine gum alone was without effect. While 80% of children showed improvement with nicotine
gum, 70% completely discontinued the gum because of side-effects, primarily involving nausea and bitter taste.
Nicotine may prove useful for treating other neuroleptic responsive disorders, such as schizophrenia and
Huntington's disease.

nicotine / haloperidol / Tourette syndrome

Résumé — Potentialisation par ta nicotine des effets de "halopéridol chez les animaux et les malades
atteints du syndrome de Tourette. J/ a déjd eté constaté que ta nicotine potentialise netiement l'effet cataleptique
de Thalopéridol chez le rat. La nicotine seule est en revanche sans effet. Par conséquent, ladministration de 2 mg de
nicotine sous forme de chewing-gum a des malades atteints de syndrome de Tourette et déjd traités par halopéridol
entraine une réduction notable des tics et ameliore la durée de concentration et d'attention. Le chewing-gum @ la nicotine
utilisé seul est encore sans effet. Bien que 80 % des enfants se sont trouvés améliorés avec la gomme a fa nicotine, 70 %
d entre eux ont cessé de s'en servir en raison d'effets secondaires, principalement des nausées lies sans doute d (amermume
du produit. La nicotine peut se montrer utile dans le traitement d autres troubles justiciables d'un traitement neuroleptique
telles la schizophrénie et la maladie de Huntington.

nicotine / halopéridol / syndrome de Tourette

Introduction

Tourette syndrome is a complex disorder invol-
ving long-term motor and vocal tics which is
commonly treated by administration of haloperi-
dol. However, there is now considerable caution
about the long-term use of this neuroleptic,
particularly in view of the risk of later tardive
dyskinesia. In addition, a number of those recei-
ving this medication frequently complain about
the side effects of akathisia, drowsiness, separa-
tion anxiety syndrome and impairment of concen-
tration during schoolwork [4]. It is therefore
important to investigate any agent which could

potentiate the beneficial effects of haloperidol,
and thereby reduce the amount of this neuroleptic
needed while retaining the desired effects.
Ideally, such an agent could also increase concen-
tration and attention, given the high comorbidity
of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder with
Tourette disorder. The present paper describes
research demonstrating the potential of nicotine
as an adjunctive therapy with neuroleptics.
Recently, Moss et al. (10, 11] demonstrated that
nicotine produced powerful increases in reser-
pine-induced hypokinesia in rats. We were inte-
rested in whether nicotine could also potentiate
the behavioral effects of the dopamine receptor

 

50609172