Haloperidol potentiation by nicotine and Tourette syndrome 21

The medication employed for remediation was
haloperidol in doses ranging from 1—3 mg daily, with
a median dosage of ] mg. In all cases the initial results
of medication bad been moderately good, but there
were frequent side-effects of drowsiness, decreased
school performance, and weight gain following at-
tempts to increase the dosage.

Because of the encouraging results found in the first
two cases, one chewing piece of Nicorette ® gum (2 mg
nicotine) was given to each child 3 times daily in the
moming, midday and late afternoon. Global tic severity
was assessed by 2 raters on a 5-point scale of:
0 = absent to minimal; + = mild; + + = moderate:
+++ = severe; and ++++ © extreme, based on
the criterion definitions of frequency, intensity, com-
plexity and interference used in the Yale Global Tic
Severity Scale [13}. Global attention and concentration
problems were also rated on a 5-point scale as noted
above, based on the symptom criterion definitions of
the Conner’s Abbreviated Parent/Teacher Rating Scale
[5]. Satisfactory inter-rater agreement was obtained.

Results

After 15—20 min a diminution in the severity and
intensity of the tics was noted, along with an
increase in concentration and attention which was
commented on positively both by the child and
the parent in 8 of the 10 cases. This effect lasted
for 45 min to | hr.

Examples from parents’ accounts regarding the
above treatment were as follows :

1) “His tics are better for an hour after the
gum. He is calmer than he has ever been,
especially after school.”

2) “After he has chewed the gum, he doesn’t

talk continuously, and can sit in a restaurant
with less tics and more concentration for the
first time. He played soccer, and had the
best game he ever had; he played in posi-
tion for the first time”.
“His tics became a lot better, and his
handwriting improved dramatically”. The
mother, who was a teacher, brought in
examples of his writing before and after
which indicated a striking change.

Overall, 80 % of children showed both decrease
of tics and improvement of concentration and
attention span, but subsequently 70 % completely
discontinued the gum because of the side-effects.
Two children given Nicorette ® gum only without
Prior administration of haloperidol showed no
effect on tics or attention span. Two children
placed on ordinary chewing gum without medica-
tion also showed no effect on tics or attention
span. A table of results for the first 10 children
follows (Table II).

3

Discussion

Obviously, nicotine can provide a dramatic im-
provement in tic and attention-span severity in a
high percentage of Tourette patients. This positive
effect lasted for 45 min to | hr, and was followed
by a resumption of the previous state. However,
the improvement in attention, concentration and
hyperactivity and amelioration of the tics allowed
the children to do homework and other quiet
tasks which thev could not do previously.

There was a high incidence of side-effects after
administration of the Nicorette® gum. These
included stomach pains, nausea, decreased appe-
tite, complaints about the bitter taste and burning
sensation in the mouth, and weight loss. These
concerns led to considerable problems with com-
pliance and eventual discontinuance of the gum
in 70% of the patients, despite continued good
clinical effects. Attempts are currently being made
to find a form of administration of nicotine which
will not give rise to these troublesome side-effects,
such as nicotine transdermal patches.

As in the animal study, nicotine alone did not
produce any beneficial effect. Both the animal
and human studies suggest that nicotine should
only prove of value when combined with a
neuroleptic. Nevertheless, other reports demons-
trate that nicotine gum alone can relieve another
movement disorder, hemidystonia [7), help in
panic attacks [2] and reduce anxiety and pain (12).

Recently, Brill [1] described a 12-year old
Tourette patient who decreased his tics and stress
by chewing ordinary gum. It is doubtful that just
chewing the nicotine gum per se was responsible
for the beneficial effect of our treatment. Firstly,
in our study 2 children placed on ordinary
chewing gum without medication showed no
effect. Secondly, as seen in Table II, 2 other
patients on nicotine gum showed no improve-
ment. Finally, our effect was only temporary,
presumably related to nicotine release from the
gum. Chewing the gum after the effect had waned
was without effect.

The mechanism of action whereby nicotine can
potentiate the behavioral actions of neuroleptics
needs elucidation. Nicotine is a receptor agonist
for nicotinic cholinergic receptors. The neurolep-
tic haloperidol is known to block dopamine
receptors located on striatal cholinergic neurons,
thereby increasing cholinergic activity in the
striatum [6]. Perhaps the combined increase in
cholinergic activity by haloperidol and nicotine
increases the inhibitory influence of the striatum
on motor behavior, thereby increasing catalepsy

 

50609174