Li hoe Pr
PHILIP MORRIS U.S.A.
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

Richmond, Virginia

To: R. P. Heretick Date: March 18, 1992
From: G.H. Bokelman

Subject: Paper Development Weekly Summary

VIRGINIA SLIMS LOW SIDESTREAM

Cigarettes. were made in the semiworks to. Virginia Slims Lights specifications using
two of Kimberly-Clark’s.high basis weight chalk papers and a binary magnesite paper (PITY).
K-C’s V3. and V5: grade. papers were each sized to give respective: weight additions of 10.0%
and 12.0% KH, PO, . The binary. magnesite paper was:sized to give a.5.6% weight.addition of
K, succinate. All of these cigarettes, and an additional model made with grade 005 paper from
Kimberly-Clark’s one-step: process, gave at least a 50% reduction in. sidestream visibility:

PROJECT MAGIC

Mainstream smoking analyses were completed. on a set of four cigarettes made in. the
semiwonks with:a 45 g/m” binary magnesite base paper (P1TY) that had been treated by Ecusta
with. four separate sizing: solutions: potassium citrate/sucrose,. potassium citrate/sucrose/citric
acid| potassium citrate/sucrose/sulfuric acid,. and potassium citrate/sulfuric. acid. These
cigarettes. did not exhibit any significant differences. in tar delivery.. Sidestream visibility
reductions ranged. from 50% to 60%. Subjective screening to-date has not shown any of these
additives .to be superior to: potassium succinate, which was used on previous cigarette:models.

CELLULOSE DERIVATIZATION
A. contract. on. the joint development of cellulosic materials for use. in. or on cigarette
paper has been signed by PM andisent to Aqualon Co..for approvali

CIGARETTE PAPER SPECIFICATIONS

A sampling of twenty bobbins. of 10-058A cigaretie wrapper was begun to determine
Kimberly-Clark’s. process: capabilities for calcium carbonate concentration and porosity. The
twenty bobUins were:selected from specific. points. in a mill roll; samples are being taken at 600
meter intervals throughout the.bobbins for the analyses.

BLEND COMPOSITION ANALYSIS

Blend. composition analyses have been completed: on once-a-month samples: of the
following. cigarettes monitored over a six-month period: (1): Marlboro 85 SP (MC), (2)
Marlboro Menthol 85: SP (Louisville), (3): Merit 85 SP (Cabarrus) and (4) PM Lights: 85: SP
(Cabarrus). As was. expected, stem content showed the. greatest variation, probably due tothe

ES9Tesreoe