FUR CONFIDENTIAL

f 1 cp

To: Mr. J, D. Weber

FROM: Ms. L. S. Firey/Ms. A. I. Williams

SUBJECT: Weekly Accomplishments

Product Guidance

@ An analysis of mean, actual and ideal product attribute ratings among
18-34 year old FF NM and FFLT NM smokers was conducted for the WINSTON
brand research group to provide background information for the revised
WINSTON product action standards. Although no statistical significant
differences were run for this rating summary, the following similarities
and differences are apparent: ,

- The FF NM 85mm female smokers appear to want a somewhat less strong,
less harsh cigarette with less tobacco taste than the male counter-
parte. However, all of their product ideal ratings in relation to
their actual product ratings are in the same direction as the male
category.

- The FFLT NM 85mm female smokers also appear to want a less strong, less
harsh cigarette with lesa tobacco taste, as well as an easier draw.
However, the female and male actual ratings are diametrically posi-~
tioned in relation to their ideals on strength and tobacco taste.
Specifically, the females want a less strong tasting cigarette with
slightly less tobacco taste, whereas the males want a stronger tasting
cigarette with eignificantly more tobacco taste.

© A review of open-end responses from a recent Project SM Product Guidance
Test was conducted to provide insight and ideas for the development of a
new chewing tobacco questionnaire. Results indicate that respondents
cite many quality of flavor and aroma attributes which are not asked on
our current questionnaire. Many respondents mentioned fruit flavor, pipe
tobacco flavor, artificial taste, sour taste, licorice taste and sweet
aroma, Additionally, many respondents cited burning and biting sensa-
tions from the tobacco, indicating a need to further explore the mouth
feel dimension of the product.

e@ Preliminary results of the FFLT Tar Limit Study were presented to Applied
R&D. Additional analyses are planned based on the conclusions reached
from preliminary results. Maximum ratings for overall acceptance are
associated with high tar levele. In general, of the two tar influencing
variables studied, air dilution is of much greater importance than filter
pressure in affecting attribute movement. Response surfaces for
strength, tobacco taste, rich taste and natural taste all have contours
similar to those for overall acceptance measures, with maximum ratings
along ridges at moderate to lower air dilutions irrespective of filter
pressure. Strength related attributes appear to be driving consumer

L62e 6b905