DEVELOIHENTAL BIOLOGY 129, 169-178 (1988)

Molecular Consequences of awa®*, A Cell-Autonomous Lethal Mutation

of Drosophila Induced by Hybrid Dysgenesis

CHARLES R. DEAROLF,! NICK TRIPOULAS, JOE BIGGS, AND ALLEN SHEARN
Department of Biology, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218

Accepted May 2, 1988

The abnormal wing disc locus, which is at salivary gland chromosome position 100C-D of the Drosophila melanogaster
genome, has been identified by a recessive lethal mutation, awd™, induced by hybrid dysgenesis. When homozygous, this
mutation eauses abnormal development of the brain, the ovaries, and the larger imaginal discs as described in the
preceding paper (C. R. Dearolf, E. Hersperger, and A. Shearn, 1988, Dev. Biol. 129, 159-168). The DNA corre-
sponding to this locus was isolated from a genomic library prepared from awd” heterozygotes by screening with a
P-element probe. The awd” aliele resulted from the insertion of a P-element fragment into a gene that encodes an 0.8-kb
poly(A)* RNA. In mutant larvae, that 0.8-kb transcript is replaced by two chimeric transcripts that are 0.7 and 1.3kbin
length, both of which contain P-element and awd sequences. The wild-type azwd* gene transcript is most abundant
during the second and third larval instars but is found at a lower level during every developmental stage as well as in
continuous cell lines. Thus the azwd* gene transcript can be detected in normal larvae at a developmental stage long
before defects are expressed in mutant larvae. Moreover, some tissues, for example the salivary gland of nonmutant,
third-instar larvae, contain high levels of this transcript, even though these tissues appear to develop normally in

mutant larvae. ©1988 Academic Press, Inc.

INTRODUCTION

The abnormal wing discs (awd) gene of Drosophila was
identified in a screen for hybrid-dysgenic late larval/
early pupal lethal mutations (Dearolf et al, 1988). The
most obvious defect caused by mutations at this locus is
the abnormal morphology of wing dises dissected from
homozygous mutant, third-instar larvae. Such dises are
smaller than normal discs of a comparable age, they are
misshapen, and they are incapabie of differentiating a
normal inventory of wing structures. Further studies
revealed that the eye-antenna and leg discs are also
affected by the mutation. Although those discs appear
morphologically normal, they are also incapable of dif-
ferentiating a normal inventory of imaginal structures.
In addition to these imaginal disc defects, which were
shown to be cell autonomous, it was observed that
transplanted mutant ovaries were sterile and that the
mutant central nervous system was histologically ab-
normal (Dearolf, 1986; Dearolf et ai, 1988).

The developmental consequences caused by the awd’®
lethal mutation provided some inferences about the
normal requirements for the product of the gene
(Dearolf et ai, 1988). It was inferred that during em-
bryogenesis and early larval development the awd*
gene is not required, that during the second half of
normal larval development the awd* gene is required in

* Present address: Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineer-
ing, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125.

169

 

50603971

the wing disc as well as in the brain, and that somewhat
later in development it is required in the eye-antenna
and leg dises and the ovary.

However, the normal pattern of gene transcription
cannot necessarily be determined from the analysis of
the developmental consequences of mutations
(McKeown ef al., 1987; Hartley et al, 1987). In order to
determine the pattern of gene transcription for awd, we
have isolated both genomic DNAs and cDNAs which
correspond to the awd gene, analyzed the pattern of
accumulation of the awd* transcript during normal de-
velopment, and analyzed the effect of the awd muta-
tion on that pattern. These results considerably extend
what was inferred about the expression of the awd gene
from studying the developmental consequences of mu-
tations in the gene and have provided the foundation for
identifying the awd protein.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
Stocks

Flies were maintained on a medium of cornmeal,
yeast, molasses, and agar at 20°C unless otherwise
noted. The markers and balancers used are described in
Lindsley and Grell (1968).

Isolation of DNA

Plasmid and phage DNA were isolated using stan-
dard procedures (Maniatis et al, 1982). High-molecu-
lar-weight Drosophila genomic DNA was isolated by the

0012-1606/88 $3.00
Copyright © 1988 by Academie Press, Inc.
All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.