Mercury News
San Jose, CA
3/27/93

 

 

GECFFREY MOSS:

Smoking has become a scapegoat

Foes should come up for air

I would never defend sraoking except as a
matter of personal freedom, but { must take is-
sue wich all of the hysteria over second-hand
smoke, There seems to be a prafound lackor
logieind perspective on the part of the anti-
smoking zealots. —

Is it possible that they actually believe that -
the primary cause of the unquestionably dead-
ly urban smog and pollution is that too many
people are smoking in their cars? Do they be-
lieve that the burning they sense in their eyes
and throat when they are caught on the ex-
pressway in a jam is due to the guy in the car
next to them who is smoking? [f they are truly
committed to reducing or eliminating second-
hand paliution, then chey ought to be happy to
pay the ultimate sacrifice and give up driving!

it has been often reported that the average r

Bay Area driver emits 1.5 pounds of pollutants
per day. Compare those toxins and that
amount to the roughly .3 ounces (iess than 02
pounds) “hich is emitted as a result of smok-
ing a package of cigarettes which weigh 8
ounces before being
smoked (for all 1
know, the .3 ounces I
estimate may be
much too high). This
means that the aver-
age driver emits
about 100 times more

in pollutants than the Earth.

average smoker, and]

strongly suspect the carcinogenicity of auto
emissions is much higher.

AC the very least it is self-righteous, hypo-
critical and deceptive for the zealots Co act as
if second-hand smoke is the biggest air pallu-
tion problem that we have on the planet Earth,
Perhaps a simple, two-step test would heip
some to balance the relative danger of these’
two sources of pollution:

1) Using your garage, play three haurs of
cards with three disgustingly heavy smokers.

Do not timic their smoking in any way.

2) On the very next night, sit alone in the
same garage with the smallest subcompact car
you can find and turn its engine on, Remember
to check your pulse every 10 minutes,

—— Tom Sullivan
“San Jose

smoke is the bigg

# Pseudo-science strikes again. Dale Mead's
letrer of March 14 enumerated a litany of
chemicals contained in tobacco amoke. it also *

The zealots act as if second-hand

 

probiem that we have on the pianet

ignored the tremendous dilution that occurs
tapidly when smoke is released inte the air.

It would take about two weeks, for example,
for a passenger on &@ smoking flight to inhale
the equivalent of one cigarette. On a six-hour

flight, that works out to aboutaeixth of a
nut’

Each year about 1 million Americans die
from fat and cholesterol in their diets. Another
190,000 die from cancer attributable to carcin-
ogens naturally present in food; £20,000 die
from alcohol-related illnesses. Another 45,000
get wiped out on the roads. Total: 1.36 million.

According to the EPA, about 3,000 die from
living with second-hand smeke. That means
that driving to a restaurant and having wine
with dinner is over 480 times as dangerous a5
inhaling any smoke pregent at the time.

— Joe Dewson
Sunnyvale

MI would like to address some questions to
the instigators and perpetrators of the vigor-
ous, and sometimes vicious, anti-smoking cam-
paign that has swept
the United States.

™ Has the number
of deaths due to lung
cancer and heart dis-
ease declined in pro-
péFtion to the number
of peopie who have
given up smoking?

How many hungry children could have
been fed with the millions spent on the cam-
palgn? :
. — Dorothy R, Perrone

San Jose

@ Most anti-smoking activists seem to have
flunked Econ 101. Tabacco taxes supplied a
-~federal revenue of $5.2 billion in 1992; if our
“ president raises this so-called sin tax from 24
cents a pack to 76 cents, this will generate
about $13.9 billion. If he jacks up the tax to $2
per pack, he'll decrease revenue because (anti-
smokers can cheer now) demand for cigarettes
would drop. ,
“: This nation may be paranoid about health
Matters, but decreasing or abolishing a tax rev-
' ‘Rnlie’or creating unemploymenc in a $45 bil-
Hon-a-year tobacco industry in North Carolina
and Kentucky is politically questionable.

—_— = ip

 

t alr pollution

 

 

 

 

 

gesgpllces0e