r
Wir Counci, For Lopacco Researciu— U.S.A., INC. ;
Dr. D. M. Conning -2- August 16, 1971

As indicated in one of the enclosed memoranda, we are now very

nearly at the point of manufacturing a number of duplicates of the smoke
inhalation device that has been developed, for the use of several investigators
who have grants-in-aid or contracts with The Council.

Before actually taking this final step of freezing the design
and manufacturing a number of these instruments, we would greatly appreciate
the opportunity to se@ the inhalation work that you have under way, anc to
exchange information on the problems involved. Dr. Furst and I have previously
visited several British and European laboratories where such studies are under
way, but neither of us has had the opportunity, heretofore, to visit the
Imperial Chemical Industries Industrial Hygiene Research Laboratories.

We are planning to come together to England early in September,
arriving between the first and the eighth and would like to inquire whether a
visit to your laboratories could be arranged during that period. There is still
enough latitude in our schedule to adjust our visit to your convenience and we
would appreciate your advice in setting the exact day. We feel that most of a
day; or perhaps a full day might be necessary for an adequate conference. Would
September 6 or 7 be suitable? In this country, September 6 is a holiday but we
do not know whether this is the case in Britain. If not, that might be another
suitable date.

F

We look forward to hearing from you.

Very sincerely yours,

Robert C. Hockett, Ph.D.
Associate Scientific Director

RCH: ek
*encls.
cc: Arthur Furst, Ph.D. , .

bee: HHR
WTH

*-1. 1965-66 Report of Scientific Director, pp. 9-13.
2. Requirements for any Mechanical Arrangement for Exposure of Animals to
Inhalation of Cigarette Smoke under Conditions Comparable to those of
. Human Smoke Exposure. (3 pp.)
°3.. Mechanical Devices for the Exposure of Small Animals to the Inhalation of
Whole, Fresh, Normal Cigarette Smoke in Monitored Dosages. (1 p.)