THe Counciz For ToBpacco Resrarcu-U.S.A., Inc.
110 EAST 50TH STREET ,
NEW YORK, N. ¥. 10022

August 16, 1971

Dr. D. M. Conning

Senior Pathologist

Industrial Hygiene Research Laboratories

Imperial Chemical Industries, Ltd.

Alderly Park

Macclesfield, Cheshire , ‘
England ,

Dear Doctor Conning:

The Council for Tobacco Research, as you are undoubtedly aware,
has been engaged for many years in studies to determine the biological
consequences of cigarette smoke inhalation by various small animals, both
under acute and especially under chronic conditions. The best-known studies
from the program are those that have been published by Drs. Cecile and
Rudolph Leuchtenberger, now of Lausanne, Switzerland, who have been receipients
of Council grants-in-aid since 1957. There are, however a number of others

more recently inaugurated.-

In 1965, we held a conference to review the devices and methodology
for such investigations, with a view to improving them and so standardizing
them as to increase the comparability of results obtained in different
laboratories. An account of this conference, the considerations that led to
its organization and of the conclusions reached, was contained in our Annual
Report for 1965-66. Certain pages from this report are attached hereto.

The criteria to be met by a satisfactory mechanical device and the
methods of using it have been further defined and refined subsequently during
the course of a program to compare critically the best devices that were
available at that time or that became available subsequently. An updated
statement of these criteria as we see them now is attached.

The study of these machines and of a new positive-pressure device
that was designed anew after the 1965 conference has led to development of a
relatively simple machine that meets most of the criteria that were set up
originally or added subsequently. A statement of its present status is attached.

Dr. Arthur Furst, Director of the Institute of Chemical Biology at
the University of San Prancisco in California, has long been engaged in inhala-
tion research and has served The Council as a consultant in this field since the
1965 conference mentioned. He subsequently spent a sabbatical year with us
full-time as a consultant in this and other matters and, since returning to San
Francisco is again actively engaged in inhalation research under a Council

contract.

‘CTR CONTRACTS o00691

Ae ERE OT EE TRUER oan Mitt Fm WARE ge