é Ley ed
: ne 5. -
ot factor. Hematocrit and age also were statistically significant.
m Cigarette smoking, while statistically significant in univariate

analysis, was not significant in-multivariote analysis. Nor were
blood glucose, relative weight.or-heart rate. .

incidence of CHD in families. The Framingham Study" — Pat ia

Hiouare: Framingham. She gave data or the incidence of CHD an

its relationship to risk factors in 1644 married couples and 609 4

sibships in the Framingham study population. The data, she said, ‘

suggest that a family history of myocardial jnfarction (MI) may yf
Lo.
.

9%. “A multivariate assessment of the predictive value of 2 <e

- be an important independent predictor of MI; further, familial

. aggregation for CHD may result from a presumably genetic predis-
position to disease that is not reflected in cholesterol, systol-
ic blood pressure or smoking levels. .

There wns no concordance in disease experience among Spouses,
she said, but analysis of data on 191 brother pairs showed the in-
cidence of MI in the older brother was significantly related to
MI experience of the younger brother even after controlling for
the effects of cholesterol, systolic blood pressure and amoking-

8. "HDL cholesterol and coronary heart disease in the Charles-
ton Heart Study" — A. Donohoe Gates, Charleston, S.C. Thiet atudy
ce eee ee unbe from 1963 through 1974 f° morbLiity
and mor —Uf that number, 899 (255 white men, 288 white women,
148 black men, 208 black women) were found to be free of CHD in
-1963. The goal of the study was to explore the relationship be-
tween HDL-C in "healthy" persons and the subsequent incidence of
CHD to see if the HDI-C level in 1964 could predict CHD outcome
in 1974. In the event of death, death certificates were ottained
through 1977. The study tested the hypothesis that there is an
inverse relationship between HDL-C and CHD. It also included mea~
surements of different serum lipoproteins. ~ .

HDL-C distribution and means for each race~sex group were
significantly different from each other, Gates said. The scale:
white males, HDL-C mean of 47.6; white females, 54; black males,
61.4; and black females, 63.7- : sO ,

Some results: White men with low HDL-C had 3.7 timos the risk 4
of dying from CHD as did those with high HDL-C, but when morbid-
ity was included, the relative risk was only slightly higher. There /

vas nosisnir ys difference in white women. There was a Slight fon
2 ase in risk in black men but that was not considered syenit- —
ow

ant because of small numbers. In black women, those with »)
CHDL-O had -about_one—third the risk of CHD as did those with high LZ
(‘which Ido mot know how to explain," Ga os said). .

s

Lhiytrard to smoking: Nonsmoking white men had the highest
mean of HDL-C (49) while smokers had a siean of 46.9 and ex-smokers
(J were in between. Both female groups showed little difference, but

blockcmen had a_hisher IWL-C thap did black nonsmokers. Ex-saokers
d the lowest HDL-C for both black end white women ond biack men.

gat
N

92s¢