wee oe

. eee . . April 11, 1980 a J
—_ 7” . .

7° MEMORANDUM . 2 oe
, os - TO: w e T. Hoyt . . cc: AY
< . WUG
FROM: Leonard S. Zahn RCH

Bea SUBJECT: Two San Diego meetings:
o I. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology
IX. Symposium on Alcohol and Cardiovascular Disease

The two sessions attracted a large turnout of scientists :
and featured a number of reports based on data from several na~ .
| : . tional studies on heart disease. While some of the findings were
new in that they were previously unreported, mone was really
.. significant. There was, however, some interesting material on
cholesterol and cancer incidence. , oy

The highlights:. « --. - \
XY. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology

 

. 4. “Cigarette smoking and higa density lipoprotein choles—
terol (HDL-C) — the Lipid Research Clinics (LRC) prevalence
atudy" — Michael Criqui, sa Jolla, Cal. He reported on data from
the LRC study covering men and women aged 20-69 years from 10 sep-
ar-te North American populations. The study group had two sequen”
tial examinations: at the first, plasma cholesterol and trigly-
cerides were measured; a 15% random sample of participants was re~
called for a second, more extensive examination that included a

-. detailed medical and family history- Criqui's report was based on
an anlysis done on 2663 men and 2553 women. Lo

He reported confirmation of the finding that cigarette smok-
ing was associated with a decrease in HDL-C. For the first time,
however, the LRC data showed this association was independent of
such factors as age, hormone use by women, obesity, alcohol in-
take, and regular exercisc, Criqui said.

He said the evidence supports a causal relationship because?
The decrease in HDL-C associated with smoking 20 or more cigarettos
daily was substantial (11-14%)/ A dose-response relationship was
evident in that subjects smoting 41-19 cigarettes daily had HDL-C
levels intermediate between nonsmokers and heavier smokers. The
HDL-C level of exsmokers in this and other studies resembled those
of never smokers, arguing against the constitutional hypothesis.

we le

~
Criqui said he (the LRC?) planned to study smoking and txi-
giyceride levels. Mo noted that the study did not determine cig- |
arotte types (filtor or non-filter) and what effoct this might
&, have.

conard

ahn
FA aed Associahslne

ee RTA COUR

(Pp. 2 804 223209 LINZOLN ROAD ¢ GREAT NECK, N.Y, 35021 © 222) O74 745