MONTHLY SUMMARY

25 JANUARY 1986-
24 FEBRUARY 1986

FOR: David Douglas

1. Non-burning smoking article:

Additional work on this subject was done this month by examining the
filtration effect of a cellulose acetate filter versus no filter. The
sample examined was an IFF tobacco neutral fraction flavor. Fifty
microliters of the sample were applied to a piece of filter paper inside a
plastic tube like those used by Flavor Development for the non-burning
smoking article. Thirty-five ml puffs were withdrawn alternately at one end
containing a CA filter and at the other end, which was open. The results of
chromatograms produced by samples taken in these ways showed that the later,
more polar, less volatile components are reduced disproportionately when
puffed through the CA filter compared to a sample taken with no filter.

This observation could have implications for the use of tobacco-identical
flavors in both burning and non-burning smoking products, since this flavor
is apparently natural and therefore representative of tobacco-identical

flavors.

No additional work is anticipated in this area unless it is desired
by supervisors of the Chemical Research Division, as an aid to Divisional
goals or major R&D programs. However, a memo summarizing the observations

made to date is being written.

2. Setup of an electron capture detector:

Some additional work with the ECD (discussed last month) was done,
mostly to document the work on the PE data system. However in the course of
this work the lower limits of detectability of Lindane and Aldrin were
explored and more difinitively determined. It was found that approximately
300-400 femtograms (10-13 grams) of either pesticide could be detected at a
2:1 signal to noise ratio, but about half this amount could not. A minimum
of 15 picograms of each of the pesticides were detected in 3 microliters of
a bright tobacco extract. The accuracy of the concentration of the
pesticide standard being used was compared with a completely separate
standard of Lindane, and the amounts from each source were found to be
equal within normal experimental variability.

A memo concerning this work is being written, and no further work
will be done in this area unless a need arises.

FITSZOTSOe